
1. J Hand Surg Eur Vol. 2015 Feb;40(2):133-40. doi: 10.1177/1753193414530590. Epub
2014 Apr 2.

Early outcomes of a sequential series of 144 patients with Dupuytren's
contracture treated by collagenase injection using an increased dose, multi-cord 
technique.

Verheyden JR(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Center for Orthopedic and Neurosurgical Care & Research, Bend, OR, USA
jverheyden@thecenteroregon.com.

Collagenase clostridium histolyticum is the first and only United States Food and
Drug Association approved nonsurgical treatment for patients with a palpable
Dupuytren's contracture cord. However, the Food and Drug Association has only
approved injection of 0.58 mg of this enzyme into one palpable Dupuytren's
contracture cord at a time. This review reports on the early outcome of 144
patients treated with the entire bottle of enzyme, approximately 0.78 mg, along
with use of a novel slow intracord multi-cord technique. Use of 0.78 mg of
enzyme, with the slow intracord multi-cord technique is safe and allows one to
inject multiple Dupuytren's contracture cords at one setting. Correction at
metacarpophalangeal and proximal interphalangeal joints, taken individually, are 
comparable with the Collagenase Option for the Reduction of Dupuytren's studies
at 43° and 33°, respectively, however due to the multi-cord injection, we
achieved 94° average immediate and 76° average final combined metacarpophalangeal
and proximal interphalangeal contracture releases per bottle of enzyme.
Implementation of the slow intracord multi-cord technique has the potential to
improve current treatment for Dupuytren's contracture with resultant significant 
healthcare savings.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/1753193414530590 
PMID: 24698852  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
