

100. J Hand Surg Eur Vol. 2014 Jun;39(5):477-81. doi: 10.1177/1753193413510440. Epub
2013 Nov 4.

Cleland's ligaments and Dupuytren's disease.

Shewring DJ(1), Rethnam U(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Trauma & Orthopaedic Surgery, University Hospital of Wales,
Cardiff, UK davidshewring@me.com. (2)Department of Trauma & Orthopaedic Surgery, 
University Hospital of Wales, Cardiff, UK.

The aim of this study was to investigate whether Cleland's ligaments are affected
by Dupuytren's disease and assess their contribution to the flexion contracture
of the proximal interphalangeal (PIP) joint. Twenty patients with Dupuytren's
disease undergoing fasciectomy for a PIP joint contracture > 40° (mean 61°, range
45°-100°) were included. After excision of all other identifiable digital
disease, Cleland's ligaments were assessed. If they appeared to be
macroscopically affected by Dupuytren's disease they were excised, sent for
histological analysis, and any further improvement of PIP joint contracture was
recorded. There were 14 males and six females with a mean age of 62 (range 40-79)
years. Excision of Cleland's ligaments resulted in a mean further correction of
7° (range 0°-15°). Histological analysis indicated that Cleland's ligament was
clearly involved with Dupuytren's disease in 12 patients, indicating that
Cleland's ligaments can be affected by Dupuytren's disease. In the remaining
specimens the histological findings were equivocal. As these structures are
situated dorsal to the neurovascular bundles, a specific dissection has to be
undertaken to identify them. Excision of Cleland's ligaments at digital
fasciectomy further avoids leaving residual disease and may yield a worthwhile
further correction of PIP joint flexion contracture.

© The Author(s) 2013.

DOI: 10.1177/1753193413510440 
PMID: 24194613  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
