

106. J Hand Surg Eur Vol. 2016 Jul;41(6):577-82. doi: 10.1177/1753193415617385. Epub
2015 Dec 1.

One-year results of needle fasciotomy and collagenase injection in treatment of
Dupuytren's contracture: A two-centre prospective randomized clinical trial.

Scherman P(1), Jenmalm P(2), Dahlin LB(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Translational Medicine - Hand Surgery, Lund University, Lund,
Sweden Department of Hand Surgery, Skåne University Hospital, Malmö, Sweden
peter.scherman@med.lu.se. (2)Department of Hand & Plastic Surgery, Norrlands
University Hospital, Umeå, Sweden. (3)Department of Translational Medicine - Hand
Surgery, Lund University, Lund, Sweden Department of Hand Surgery, Skåne
University Hospital, Malmö, Sweden.

The objective of this study was to compare early and 1 year outcome of needle
fasciotomy and collagenase injection for Dupuytren's disease. Inclusion criteria 
were primary Dupuytren's contracture excluding the thumb with a palpable cord and
a total extension deficit, i.e. a fixed flexion from 30° to 135° with less than
60° in the proximal interphalangeal joint. The most affected ray was randomized
to either treatment at two centres. Passive extension deficits for each joint
before and after treatment, and at 3 and 12 months, were recorded together with
complications. A total of 96 rays in 93 patients were included. The average total
extension deficits before treatment were 60° or more in both groups, and were
largely made up of contractures at the metacarpophalangeal joints. The deficits
were reduced by 75% in both groups at 3 months and by 70% in both groups at
12 months. Four patients in the needle fasciotomy group and eight patients in the
collagenase group had skin ruptures. At 3 months and 1 year, the outcomes of
needle fasciotomy and collagenase injection are the same in Dupuytren's disease
with predominantly metacarpophalangeal joint involvement.LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: 2.

© The Author(s) 2015.

DOI: 10.1177/1753193415617385 
PMID: 26631343  [PubMed - in process]
