

108. Plast Reconstr Surg Glob Open. 2016 Feb 26;4(2):e629. doi:
10.1097/GOX.0000000000000565. eCollection 2016.

Collagenase Dupuytren Contracture: Achieving Single Treatment Success with a Hand
Therapist-Based Protocol.

Malafa MM(1), Lehrman C(1), Criley JW(1), Amirlak B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, University of Texas
Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, Tex.; and Physical Medicine and Rehab, VA
North Texas Healthcare System, Physical Medicine and Rehab Service, Dallas, Tex.

Surgery remains the gold standard in the treatment of Dupuytren contracture but
is technically demanding, carries significant risk of complications, and requires
prolonged recovery time. Collagenase injection is an efficacious alternative to
surgery; however, contracture release often requires multiple treatments spaced a
month apart. We report our experience with a new collagenase treatment protocol
aimed to minimize the total treatment time per joint contracture.METHODS: We
performed a single institution retrospective review of patients with Dupuytren
contracture treated with collagenase using our protocol from 2011 to 2013.
Patients returned 24 hours after collagenase injection for cord manipulation by a
certified hand therapist while under digital block. Treatment success was defined
as reduction in contracture to 5 degrees or less. Successfully treated joints
were evaluated for recurrence (>10 degrees contracture) at 30-day and 6-month
follow-up appointments. Serious adverse events, including skin tears, were
recorded.
RESULTS: Success was achieved in 36 of 47 treated joints (76.6%) after a single
injection. There were 2 recurrences in 32 joints at 30-day follow-up (6.2%) and
no recurrences in 17 joints available at 6-month follow-up. Skin tears were the
only serious adverse event occurring in 18 of 47 cord ruptures (38.3%). All
healed secondarily without complication.
CONCLUSIONS: Our protocol preserves treatment efficacy while maximizing
efficiency. Achieving successful cord rupture with a single injection allows
earlier return of function, reduced cost of treatment, and increased convenience 
for the patient. Patients, particularly those with greater contractures, should
be counseled regarding the risk of skin tear during cord manipulation.

DOI: 10.1097/GOX.0000000000000565 
PMCID: PMC4778900
PMID: 27014558  [PubMed]
