

111. BMC Musculoskelet Disord. 2015 Jun 7;16:138. doi: 10.1186/s12891-015-0597-z.

Developing an animal model of Dupuytren's disease by orthotopic transplantation
of human fibroblasts into athymic rat.

Satish L(1,)(2), Palmer B(3), Liu F(4), Papatheodorou L(5), Rigatti L(6), Baratz 
ME(7), Kathju S(8,)(9).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plastic Surgery, University of Pittsburgh, 3550 Terrace Street, 
Scaife Hall, Room no. 685.2, Pittsburgh, PA, 15261, USA. las238@pitt.edu.
(2)McGowan Institute for Regenerative Medicine, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
las238@pitt.edu. (3)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Allegheny Health Network,
Pittsburgh, PA, USA. palmarislongus@gmail.com. (4)Department of Plastic Surgery, 
University of Pittsburgh, 3550 Terrace Street, Scaife Hall, Room no. 685.2,
Pittsburgh, PA, 15261, USA. fangliu63@gmail.com. (5)Department of Orthopedic
Surgery, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA. loukiapapath@yahoo.gr.
(6)Division of Laboratory Animal Resources, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh,
PA, USA. rigattil@pitt.edu. (7)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, University of
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA. mebaratz@gmail.com. (8)Department of Plastic
Surgery, University of Pittsburgh, 3550 Terrace Street, Scaife Hall, Room no.
685.2, Pittsburgh, PA, 15261, USA. andeep@hotmail.com. (9)McGowan Institute for
Regenerative Medicine, Pittsburgh, PA, USA. andeep@hotmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Dupuytren's disease (DD) is a slow, progressive fibroproliferative
disorder affecting the palms of the hands. The disease is characterized by the
formation of collagen rich- cords which gradually shorten by the action of
myofibroblasts resulting in finger contractures. It is a disease that is confined
to humans, and a major limiting factor in investigating this disorder has been
the lack of a faithful animal model that can recapitulate its distinct biology.
The aim of this study was to develop such a model by determining if Dupuytren's
disease (DD)- and control carpal tunnel (CT)-derived fibroblasts could survive in
the forepaw of the nude rats and continue to exhibit the distinct characteristics
they display in in vitro cultures.
METHODS: 1x10(7) fluorescently labeled DD- and CT-derived fibroblasts were
transplanted into the left and right forepaws of nude rats respectively. Cells
were tracked at regular intervals for a period of two months by quantifying
emitted fluorescent signal using an IVIS imaging system. After a period of 62
days rat forepaw connective tissues were harvested for histology and total RNA
was isolated. Human-specific probes were used to perform real time RT-PCR assays 
to examine the expression patterns of gene products associated with fibrosis in
DD. Rat forepaw skin was also harvested to serve as an internal control.
RESULTS: Both CT- and DD-derived fibroblasts survived for a period of 62 days,
but DD-derived cells showed a significantly greater level of persistent
fluorescent signal at the end of this time than did CT-derived cells. mRNA
expression levels of α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA), type I- and type III-
collagens were all significantly elevated in the forepaw receiving DD
cord-derived fibroblasts in comparison to CT-derived fibroblasts. Masson's
trichrome stain confirmed increased collagen deposition in the forepaw that was
injected with DD cord-derived fibroblasts.
CONCLUSIONS: For the first time we describe an animal model for Dupuytren's
disease at the orthotopic anatomical location. We further show that gene
expression differences between control (CT) and diseased (DD) derived fibroblasts
persist when these cells are transplanted to the forepaw of the nude rat. These
preliminary findings indicate that, with further refinements, this animal model
holds promise as a baseline for investigating novel therapeutic regimens to
determine an effective strategy in treating DD.

DOI: 10.1186/s12891-015-0597-z 
PMCID: PMC4458343
PMID: 26049932  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
