

112. J Hand Surg Eur Vol. 2016 Jul;41(6):609-13. doi: 10.1177/1753193415602189. Epub
2015 Sep 4.

The quantitative role of flexor sheath incision in correcting Dupuytren proximal 
interphalangeal joint contractures.

Blazar PE(1), Floyd EW(2), Earp BE(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA,
USA pblazar@partners.org. (2)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Brigham and
Women's Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.

Controversy exists regarding intra-operative treatment of residual proximal
interphalangeal joint contractures after Dupuytren's fasciectomy. We test the
hypothesis that a simple release of the digital flexor sheath can correct
residual fixed flexion contracture after subtotal fasciectomy. We prospectively
enrolled 19 patients (22 digits) with Dupuytren's contracture of the proximal
interphalangeal joint. The average pre-operative extension deficit of the
proximal interphalangeal joints was 58° (range 30-90). The flexion contracture of
the joint was corrected to an average of 28° after fasciectomy. In most digits
(20 of 21), subsequent incision of the flexor sheath further corrected the
contracture by an average of 23°, resulting in correction to an average flexion
contracture of 4.7° (range 0-40). Our results support that contracture of the
tendon sheath is a contributor to Dupuytren's contracture of the joint and that
sheath release is a simple, low morbidity addition to correct Dupuytren's
contractures of the proximal interphalangeal joint. Additional release of the
proximal interphalangeal joint after fasciectomy, after release of the flexor
sheath, is not necessary in many patients.LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: IV (Case Series,
Therapeutic).

© The Author(s) 2015.

DOI: 10.1177/1753193415602189 
PMID: 26342010  [PubMed - in process]
