

113. J Orthop Res. 2014 Apr;32(4):515-23. doi: 10.1002/jor.22535. Epub 2013 Nov 30.

Down-regulation of collagen synthesis and matrix metalloproteinase expression in 
myofibroblasts from Dupuytren nodule using adenovirus-mediated relaxin gene
therapy.

Kang YM(1), Choi YR, Yun CO, Park JO, Suk KS, Kim HS, Park MS, Lee BH, Lee HM,
Moon SH.

Author information: 
(1)BK21 PLUS Project for Medical Science, Yonsei University College of Medicine, 
Seoul, Republic of, Korea.

Erratum in
    J Orthop Res. 2014 Jul;32(7):974.

Dupuytren's disease is a fibroproliferative connective tissue disorder
characterized by contracture of the palmer fascia of the hand. Relaxin (RLN) is a
multifunctional factor which contributes to the remodeling of the pelvic ligament
by inhibiting fibrosis and inflammatory activities. The aim of this study was to 
investigate the effect of the RLN gene on the inhibition of fibrosis in
myofibroblastic cells. Myofibroblast cells with adenovirus LacZ (Ad-LacZ) as a
marker gene or adenovirus relaxin (Ad-RLN) as therapeutic gene showed transgene
expressions in beta-galactosidase assay and Western blot analysis.
Myofibroblastic cells with Ad-RLN demonstrated a 22% and 48% reduction in
collagen I and III mRNA expressions respectively, a 50% decrease in MMP-1, 70%
decrease in MMP-2, 80% decrease in MMP-9, and a 15% reduction in MMP-13 protein
expression compared with cultures with viral control and saline control. In
addition, myofibroblastic cells with Ad-RLN showed a 40% decrease in TIMP 1 and a
15% increase in TIMP 3 protein expression at 48 h compared to cultures with viral
control and saline control. Also, myofibroblastic cell with Ad-RLN demonstrated a
74% inhibition of fibronectin and a 52% decrease in total collagen synthesis at
48 h compared with cultures with viral control and saline control. In conclusion,
the RLN gene render antifibrogenic effect on myofibroblastic cells from
Dupuytren's nodule via direct inhibition of collagen synthesis not through
collagenolytic pathway such as MMP-1, -13, TIMP 1, and 3. Therefore relaxin can
be an alternative therapeutic strategy in initial stage of Dupuytren's disease by
its antifibrogenic effect.

© 2013 Orthopaedic Research Society. Published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jor.22535 
PMID: 24293067  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
