

114. J Hand Surg Eur Vol. 2016 Jul;41(6):583-8. doi: 10.1177/1753193415600670. Epub
2015 Aug 25.

New insights into the immediate outcome of collagenase injections for Dupuytren's
contracture.

Warwick DJ(1), Graham D(2), Worsley P(3).

Author information: 
(1)Hand Unit, University Hospital Southampton, Southampton, UK Musculoskeletal
Research Unit, University Hospital Southampton and University of Southampton,
Southampton, UK davidwarwick@handsurgery.co.uk. (2)Hand Unit, University Hospital
Southampton, Southampton, UK. (3)Musculoskeletal Research Unit, University
Hospital Southampton and University of Southampton, Southampton, UK.

Collagenase clostridium histolyticum is now established as an effective and safe 
option to treat patients with a single joint affected with Dupuytren's
contracture. We have extended its use to natatory and combined cords. In a
prospective consecutive series of 298 cords in 237 patients, the mean total
extension loss improved in cords crossing the metacarpophalangeal joint from 46° 
to 1°, in cords crossing the proximal interphalangeal joint from 56° to 7°, in
natatory cords from 130° to 25° and in combined cords from 102° to 16°. The
immediate correction of combined cords and natatory cords was less reliable than 
that obtained in cords crossing the metacarpophalangeal joint or proximal
interphalangeal joint. Less severe pre-intervention contractures tended to
correct better. We found a high complication rate, which may cause alarm. A total
of 21% developed skin splits, with the risk of skin splits generally increasing
with more severe pre-injection deformity. Blood blisters were only encountered
after manipulation of the more severe contractures. A total of 23 patients (8%)
had a spontaneous rupture and 57 patients (19%) had a partial spontaneous
rupture. Only 4.9% needed a second injection. We noticed a learning curve, with
seven of the first 20 cords (35%) needing a second injection to achieve a
satisfactory correction and then only seven (2.5%) in the rest.LEVEL OF EVIDENCE:
IV.

© The Author(s) 2015.

DOI: 10.1177/1753193415600670 
PMID: 26307140  [PubMed - in process]
