

115. J Orthop Sci. 2014 Jan;19(1):64-70. doi: 10.1007/s00776-013-0478-y. Epub 2013 Oct
16.

Epidemiological study for personal risk factors and quality of life related to
Dupuytren's disease in a mountain village of Japan.

Tajika T(1), Kobayashi T, Kaneko T, Tsunoda D, Tsunoda K, Sutou T, Yamamoto A,
Takagishi K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Gunma University Graduate School of
Medicine, 3-39-22 Showa-machi, Maebashi, Gunma, 371-8511, Japan,
tajikatsuyoshi@yahoo.co.jp.

BACKGROUND: This study investigated the etiology, personal risk factors, and
quality of life related to Dupuytren's disease among residents of a mountain
village in Japan.
METHODS: Medical examinations were conducted of 401 adult residents (163 men, 238
women; average age of 66.7 years, range 40-92) of a mountain village in Japan.
All had completed a self-administered questionnaire including items for gender,
weight, height, dominant hand, occupation, history of diabetes mellitus, and
frequency of smoking tobacco and drinking alcohol, in addition to
EuroQol-5-Dimensions-3-level Japanese version. Blood samples were collected and
assessed for biochemical markers related to Dupuytren's disease. The Dupuytren's 
disease diagnosis was based on clinical signs. Meyerding's classification was
used to ascertain the disease severity. After examining background data and
physical examination data related to Dupuytren's disease, we evaluated the
association of Dupuytren's disease with those factors using univariate and
logistic regression analysis.
RESULTS: Dupuytren's disease was diagnosed in 28 subjects (7.0%). Univariate
analysis revealed associations of age, male gender, occupation, history of
diabetes mellitus, and alcohol intake with Dupuytren's disease. Logistic
regression analysis after adjustment for age revealed a significant association
between Dupuytren's disease and male gender, occupation, and history of alcohol
intake. No significant difference was found between Dupuytren's disease patients 
and participants without this disease in the scoring and visual analog scale of
EuroQol. No relation was found in scoring, the visual analog scale of EuroQol, or
grading of Meyerding's classification in participants with Dupuytren's disease.
CONCLUSION: This cross-sectional study revealed Dupuytren's disease in 7.0% of
401 subjects among the general population of a mountain village in Japan. The
prevalence is higher with age and is apparently associated with male gender,
occupation and alcohol intake. Risk factors associated with Dupuytren's disease
were identified as age, male gender, occupation, and alcohol consumption habits.

DOI: 10.1007/s00776-013-0478-y 
PMID: 24129389  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
