

117. Expert Opin Ther Targets. 2015;19(12):1677-87. doi:
10.1517/14728222.2015.1068758. Epub 2015 Aug 26.

Dupuytren's disease therapy: targeting the vicious cycle of myofibroblasts?

Musumeci M(1), Vadal√† G(1,)(2), Russo F(1), Pelacchi F(1), Lanotte A(1), Denaro
V(1).

Author information: 
(1)a 1 Campus Bio-Medico University of Rome, Department of Orthopaedic and Trauma
Surgery , Via Alvaro del Portillo 200, 00128 Rome, Italy +39 06 2254111192 ; +39 
06 225411638 ; m.musumeci@unicampus.it. (2)b 2 Cell Factory, Fondazione IRCCS Ca'
Granda Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico , Milan, Italy.

INTRODUCTION: Dupuytren's disease (DD) is a proliferative fibromatosis of the
hand, which causes permanent flexion contracture of the digits and, ultimately,
loss of function. The treatment of DD is complex and involves surgical and
nonsurgical approaches, with the goal of removing the affected tissue. New
biological targets are under investigation in order to develop innovative
therapies.
AREAS COVERED: The etiology of DD is still unknown. Several authors who focused
their studies on the genetics of DD recognized an inherited autosomal dominant
pattern. Actually, DD is a multifactorial and complex disease. Myofibroblasts are
thought to play a crucial role in its pathogenesis, although their origin is not 
clear.
EXPERT OPINION: There is a general consensus that a better understanding of
cellular and molecular mechanisms of DD will lead to the design of more specific 
and effective treatment alternatives. In this review, the authors hypothesize a
new biological model for DD pathology, where myofibroblasts enhance the reservoir
of the disease acting as if in a vicious cycle. This could help, ultimately, in
identifying new therapeutic strategies to treat this common and disabling
fibroproliferative disorder.

DOI: 10.1517/14728222.2015.1068758 
PMID: 26690790  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
