

118. Ann Plast Surg. 2014 Dec;73 Suppl 2:S178-80. doi: 10.1097/SAP.0000000000000133.

Hueston revisited: use of acellular dermal matrix following fasciectomy for the
treatment of Dupuytren's disease.

Terry MJ(1), Sue GR, Goldberg C, Narayan D.

Author information: 
(1)From the *Department of Surgery, Section of Plastic and Reconstructive
Surgery, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT.

Various surgical treatment modalities have been advocated for the treatment of
Dupuytren's disease. However, recurrence following surgical treatment of
Dupuytren's disease remains a common problem. Previous studies have demonstrated 
lower recurrence rates with use of a full-thickness skin graft. We therefore
postulated that use of acellular dermal matrix may be associated with a similar
outcome, based on the common inhibitory effect on underlying myofibroblasts. We
performed a retrospective cohort study of 43 patients undergoing open fasciectomy
for Dupuytren's disease from years 2005 to 2012 at our academic institution.
Standard fasciectomies of the affected palmar and digital fascia were performed
via Brunner incisions on all patients. Patients in the experimental group had a
sheet of acellular dermal matrix (Alloderm; LifeCell, Bridgewater, NJ) sutured
into the surgical bed with interrupted absorbable sutures before closure, whereas
patients in the control group were not closed with acellular dermal matrix.
Patients were then evaluated at follow-up for disease recurrence, defined as
presence of Dupuytren's tissue in an area previously operated on with a
contracture greater than that recorded following the surgical fasciectomy, or
presence of contracture requiring surgery. Among our cohort of 43 patients, 23
(53.5%) were treated with acellular dermal matrix while 20 (46.5%) were not. The 
median age of our cohort was 66.5 years (range 54-91 years). The median follow-up
was 1.8 years. During this follow-up period, recurrence of contracture was
observed in 1 of 23 patients in the group receiving acellular dermal matrix,
compared to 5 of 20 in the control group (P = 0.045). No differences in the
incidence of minor wound complications were observed. Our novel technique of
placement of acellular dermal matrix into the wound bed following fasciectomy for
Dupuytren's disease may be an important surgical strategy to reduce recurrence
rates in patients with Dupuytren's disease.

DOI: 10.1097/SAP.0000000000000133 
PMID: 24691328  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
