

120. Plast Reconstr Surg. 2016 Oct;138(4):837-46. doi: 10.1097/PRS.0000000000002560.

Comparative Effectiveness of Percutaneous Needle Aponeurotomy and Limited
Fasciectomy for Dupuytren's Contracture: A Multicenter Observational Study.

Zhou C(1), Selles RW, Slijper HP, Feitz R, van Kooij Y, Moojen TM, Hovius SE.

Author information: 
(1)Rotterdam and Hilversum, The Netherlands From the Departments of Plastic,
Reconstructive, and Hand Surgery and Rehabilitation Medicine, Erasmus MC
University Medical Center; and Hand and Wrist Surgery, Xpert Clinic.

BACKGROUND: Percutaneous needle aponeurotomy is a less invasive surgical
alternative to limited fasciectomy for Dupuytren's contracture, but appeared less
efficacious in a previous randomized clinical trial. This study compared the
effectiveness of both techniques in contemporary clinical practice.
METHODS: The authors evaluated prospectively gathered data from all patients who 
were treated with percutaneous needle aponeurotomy or limited fasciectomy between
2011 and 2014 at six hand surgery practice sites in The Netherlands. The degree
of total active extension deficit, Michigan Hand Outcomes Questionnaire
subscores, and complications evaluated at 6 to 12 weeks after treatment were
compared after propensity score-based inverse-probability weighting to account
for the differences in baseline characteristics between the treatment groups.
RESULTS: After inverse-probability weighting, 78 percutaneous needle aponeurotomy
patients and 103 limited fasciectomy patients remained with similar
characteristics (88 percent Tubiana grade I or II). The degree of total residual 
extension deficit at follow-up was similar between the weighted groups
(percutaneous needle aponeurotomy, 21 degrees; limited fasciectomy, 18 degrees; p
= 0.330). Furthermore, percutaneous needle aponeurotomy was associated with a
lower mild complication rate (percutaneous needle aponeurotomy, 5.2 percent;
limited fasciectomy, 24.3 percent; p < 0.001) and larger increases in the
subdomain scores of satisfaction (p < 0.001), work performance (p < 0.001),
activities of daily living (p = 0.009), and overall hand function (p = 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: This multicenter observational study found that, among patients with
mildly to moderately affected digits, percutaneous needle aponeurotomy reduced
contractures as effectively as limited fasciectomy does in clinical practice.
Furthermore, percutaneous needle aponeurotomy provided a more rapid functional
recovery and had a lower rate of mild complications.
CLINICAL QUESTION/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic, III.

DOI: 10.1097/PRS.0000000000002560 
PMID: 27307334  [PubMed - in process]
