

126. Plast Reconstr Surg. 2012 Apr;129(4):921-32. doi: 10.1097/PRS.0b013e3182442343.

DNA copy number variations at chromosome 7p14.1 and chromosome 14q11.2 are
associated with dupuytren's disease: potential role for MMP and Wnt signaling
pathway.

Shih B(1), Tassabehji M, Watson JS, Bayat A.

Author information: 
(1)Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery Research, Manchester Interdisciplinary
Biocentre, University of Manchester, 131 Princess Street, Manchester M1 7DN,
United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Dupuytren's disease is a common fibroproliferative disorder with an
unknown etiology. Emerging evidence suggests a strong genetic component involved 
in the manifestation of the disease. This study aims to investigate the potential
involvement of copy number variations in Dupuytren's disease pathogenesis.
METHODS: Array-based comparative genomic hybridization (NimbleGen Human CGH 2.1
M) was utilized to compare DNA from (1) nodules versus internal control
(patient's blood; n = 4) and (2) nodules (n = 4) versus external control
(commercial reference DNA pooled from 10 donors). Analysis was carried out using 
Nexus 5.1 (BioDiscovery, El Segundo, Calif.) with the inclusion of additional
results from previously published array-based comparative genomic hybridization. 
Copy number variations were considered to be common in Dupuytren's disease if the
overlap was statistically significant and they were present in the majority (75
to 87.5 percent when compared with controls) of Dupuytren's disease nodules. The 
copy number variations loci were also compared with recently published genome
wide-association studies. Common copy number variations were further validated
using quantitative polymerase chain reaction. DNA from 25 Dupuytren's disease
cases and 30 external controls were used in the quantitative polymerase chain
reaction validation. In addition, gene expression was compared between
Dupuytren's disease nodules and internal controls (transverse palmar fascia; n = 
7).
RESULTS: Five common copy number variations, on chromosome 17q12, 1p31.1, 20p13, 
7p14.1, and 14q11.2, were identified by array-based comparative genomic
hybridization. Significantly higher copy numbers of copy number variations at
chromosome 7p14.1 and 14q11.2 in Dupuytren's disease were confirmed in
quantitative polymerase chain reaction validation. Matrix metalloproteinase-14
and secreted frizzled-related protein 4 (near a polymorphism recently associated 
with Dupuytren's disease) were significantly up-regulated in nodules.
CONCLUSION: This study demonstrated an association between Dupuytren's disease
and copy number variations at chromosomes 7p14.1 and 14q11.2.

DOI: 10.1097/PRS.0b013e3182442343 
PMID: 22183494  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
