

133. Int J Clin Pract. 2013 Mar;67(3):261-70. doi: 10.1111/ijcp.12099.

Dupuytren's disease presentation, referral pathways and resource utilisation in
Europe: regional analysis of a surgeon survey and patient chart review.

Dahlin LB(1), Bainbridge C, Leclercq C, Gerber RA, Guerin D, Cappelleri JC,
Szczypa PP, Dias J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Sciences - Hand Surgery, Lund University, Skåne
University Hospital Malmö, Malmö, Sweden. lars.dahlin@med.lu.se

AIM: We explored the management of Dupuytren's disease (DD) using a surgeon
survey and patient chart review.
METHODS: Twelve countries participated: Denmark, Finland, Sweden (Nordic region);
Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland (East); France, Germany, the Netherlands, United 
Kingdom (West); Italy, Spain (Mediterranean). A random sample of
orthopaedic/plastic surgeons (N = 687) with 3-30 years' experience was asked
about Dupuytren's contracture procedures performed during the previous 12 months.
Information ≤ 5 consecutive patients per surgeon was extracted from patient
charts (N = 3357).
RESULTS: Overall, 84% of participants were orthopaedic surgeons; 56% of surgeons 
were hand specialists. Deciding factors for fasciectomy and dermofasciectomy were
consistent across regions: metacarpophalangeal (MP) or proximal interphalangeal
contracture > 45°, recurrent contracture, and high expectations for success.
Deciding factors for percutaneous needle fasciotomy were less consistent across
regions, but the leading factor was MP flexion < 20°. Overall, 49% of diagnoses
and 55% of referrals were made by a general practitioner (GP), with regional
variation: 31-77% for GP diagnoses and 36-81% for GP referrals. There were also
differences in admission status (e.g. 9% of Nordic patients and 80% of Eastern
patients were treated as inpatients). Most patients were treated in public
hospitals and most procedures were covered by public health insurance.
CONCLUSIONS: We found regional variations in surgical practice, patient
characteristics and referral patterns. Understanding current diagnosis and
treatment patterns, in relation to regional differences in health economics, may 
improve physicians' diagnosis of DD and guide patients towards appropriate,
customised management plans.

© 2013 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ijcp.12099 
PMID: 23409694  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
