

14. Acta Orthop. 2015 Jun;86(3):310-5. doi: 10.3109/17453674.2015.1019782. Epub 2015 
Feb 19.

Collagenase treatment of Dupuytren's contracture using a modified injection
method: a prospective cohort study of skin tears in 164 hands, including
short-term outcome.

Atroshi I(1), Nordenskjöld J, Lauritzson A, Ahlgren E, Waldau J, Waldén M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthopedics, Hässleholm, Kristianstad, and Ystad Hospitals ,
Hässleholm ;

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Treatment of Dupuytren's contracture (DC) with
collagenase Clostridium histolyticum (CCH) consists of injection followed by
finger manipulation. We used a modified method, injecting a higher dose than
recommended on the label into several parts of the cord, which allows treatment
of multiple joint contractures in 1 session and may increase efficacy. We studied
the occurrence of skin tears and short-term outcome with this procedure.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We studied 164 consecutive hands with DC, palpable cord,
and extension deficit of ≥ 20º in the metacarpophalangeal (MCP) and/or proximal
interphalangeal (PIP) joint (mean patient age 70 years, 82% men). A hand surgeon 
injected all the content of 1 CCH vial (approximately 0.80 mg) into multiple
spots in the cord and performed finger extension under local anesthesia after 1
or 2 days. A nurse recorded skin tears on a diagram and conducted a standard
telephone follow-up within 4 weeks. A hand therapist measured joint contracture
before injection and at a median of 23 (IQR: 7-34) days after finger extension.
RESULTS: A skin tear occurred in 66 hands (40%). The largest diameter of the tear
was ≤ 5 mm in 30 hands and > 10 mm in 14 hands. Hands with skin tear had greater 
mean pretreatment MCP extension deficit than those without tear: 59º (SD 26) as
opposed to 32º (SD 23). Skin tear occurred in 21 of 24 hands with MCP contracture
of ≥ 75º. All tears healed with open-wound treatment. No infections occurred.
Mean improvement in total (MCP + PIP) extension deficit was 55º (SD 28).
INTERPRETATION: Skin tears occurred in 40% of hands treated with collagenase
injections, but only a fifth of them were larger than 1 cm. Tears were more
likely in hands with severe MCP joint contracture. All tears healed without
complications. Short-term contracture reduction was good.

DOI: 10.3109/17453674.2015.1019782 
PMCID: PMC4443459
PMID: 25695745  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
