

141. Clin Med Res. 2014 Dec;12(3-4):133-7. doi: 10.3121/cmr.2013.1199. Epub 2014 Feb
26.

SNPs previously associated with Dupuytren's disease replicated in a North
American cohort.

Anderson ER(1), Ye Z(2), Caldwell MD(3), Burmester JK(4).

Author information: 
(1)Surgical Resident, Marshfield Clinic, Marshfield, WI USA
eanderson@dshealthcare.com. (2)Biomedical Informatics Research Center, Marshfield
Clinic Research Foundation, Marshfield, Wisconsin, USA. (3)Department of General 
Surgery, Director of Wound Healing Program, Marshfield Clinic, Marshfield,
Wisconsin, USA. (4)Clinical Research Center, Marshfield Clinic Research
Foundation, Marshfield, Wisconsin, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Dupuytren's disease is a progressive fibrosis of the hand that often
results in debilitating flexion contractures. Its etiology is not completely
understood but likely involves both genetic and environmental factors. A recent
study performed in Europe identified DNA variants that associate with Dupuytren's
disease. Given the likelihood for genetic variation among populations, we planned
to validate the genetic variants identified by this study in a North American
population.
METHODS: In the Marshfield Clinic's Personalized Medicine Research Project, 296
cases with Dupuytren's disease were identified and matched 3-to-1 to controls
without Dupuytren's disease. Clinical data were abstracted from the electronic
medical record. The top 12 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) from the
European study were selected and tested in a multiplex assay using the MassArray 
Analyzer 4 (Sequenom, Inc., San Diego, CA). Differences in allele frequency were 
determined, and variants with a P value of <0.004 were considered significant.
RESULTS: We replicated 5 of the 12 SNPs previously reported to be associated with
Dupuytren's disease.
CONCLUSION: Our findings support a role for the Wnt signaling pathway in the
development of Dupuytren's disease, and suggest that further study of this
pathway may result in early diagnosis and non-surgical treatments for Dupuytren's
disease.

Â© 2013 Marshfield Clinic.

DOI: 10.3121/cmr.2013.1199 
PMCID: PMC4317152
PMID: 24573701  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
