

144. Stem Cells Dev. 2012 Mar 1;21(4):609-22. doi: 10.1089/scd.2011.0140. Epub 2011
Jul 19.

Identification of mesenchymal stem cells in perinodular fat and skin in
Dupuytren's disease: a potential source of myofibroblasts with implications for
pathogenesis and therapy.

Iqbal SA(1), Manning C, Syed F, Kolluru V, Hayton M, Watson S, Bayat A.

Author information: 
(1)Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery Research, Manchester Interdisciplinary
Biocentre, University of Manchester, Manchester, United Kingdom.

Dupuytren's disease (DD) is a fibroproliferative disorder characterized by
aberrant proliferation of myofibroblasts, the source of which remains unknown.
Recent studies indicate that circulating and tissue-resident mesenchymal stem
cells (MSCs) can differentiate into myofibroblasts. Therefore, the aim of this
study was to profile MSCs from phenotypically distinct DD sites including cord,
nodule, skin overlying nodule (SON), and perinodular fat (PNF) compared with
unaffected internal controls, that is, distant palmar fat (DPF) and transverse
palmar fascia (Skoog's fibers) as well as external control carpal tunnel (CT)
tissue including skin, fat, and fascia. Freshly isolated primary fibroblasts as
well as cells grown up to passage 5 (P5) from DD (n=27) and CT (n=14) samples
were analyzed for the presence of established MSC markers CD73, CD90, and CD105
and absence of hematopoietic marker CD34 using fluorescence-activated cell
sorting, in-cell quantitative western blotting, immunohistochemistry, and
immunocytochemistry. Freshly isolated cells from SON, PNF, and cord biopsies had 
a higher number of CD34(-)73(+)90(+)105(+) cells compared with Skoog's fibers and
CT controls. P3 cells obtained from all DD biopsies compared with CT samples
differentiated into osteocytes, adipocytes, and chondrocytes. P3 cord and nodule 
cells expressed intense α-smooth muscle actin staining compared with skin and fat
cells. Stem cell markers including stem cell factor, MSC-homing marker CXCR4, and
Wnt/β-catenin downregulator Dkk-1 were all upregulated in SON and PNF compared
with CT skin and CT fat, respectively, as shown by real-time quantitative
polymerase chain reaction. However, osteogenic marker OSF-1 had a significantly
higher expression in the PNF (P=0.002) and cord (P=0.01) compared with the
nodule. In conclusion, we have shown the presence of MSCs in specific DD tissue
phenotypes compared with internal and external control tissue. These findings
provide preliminary support for a potential alternative source of disease
myofibroblasts originating from sites such as SON and PNF as opposed to palmar
fascia alone.

DOI: 10.1089/scd.2011.0140 
PMCID: PMC3280606
PMID: 21612554  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
