

145. Handchir Mikrochir Plast Chir. 2013 Oct;45(5):253-7. doi: 10.1055/s-0033-1357119.
Epub 2013 Oct 2.

Common variants of the EPDR1 gene and the risk of Dupuytren’s disease.

Dębniak T(1), Żyluk A, Puchalski P, Serrano-Fernandez P.

Author information: 
(1)Pomeranian Medical University, Department of Genetics and Pathomorphology,
Szczecin, Poland.

The object of this study was the investigation of 3 common variants of single
nucleotide polymorphisms of the ependymin-related gene 1 and its association with
the occurrence of Dupuytren's disease. DNA samples were obtained from the
peripheral blood of 508 consecutive patients. The control group comprised 515
healthy adults who were age-matched with the Dupuytren's patients. 3 common
variants were analysed using TaqMan® genotyping assays and sequencing. The
differences in the frequencies of variants of single nucleotide polymorphisms in 
patients and the control group were statistically tested. Additionally, haplotype
frequency and linkage disequilibrium were analysed for these variants. A
statistically significant association was noted between rs16879765_CT,
rs16879765_TT and rs13240429_AA variants and Dupuytren's disease. 2 haplotypes:
rs2722280_C+rs13240429_A+rs16879765_C and rs2722280_C+rs13240429_G+rs16879765_T
were found to be statistically significantly associated with Dupuytren's disease.
Moreover, we found that rs13240429 and rs16879765 variants were in strong linkage
disequilibrium, while rs2722280 was only in moderate linkage disequilibrium. No
significant differences were found in the frequencies of the variants of the gene
between the groups with a positive and negative familial history of Dupuytren's
disease. In conclusion, results of this study suggest that EPDR1 gene can be
added to a growing list of genes associated with Dupuytren's disease development.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0033-1357119 
PMID: 24089297  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
