

150. Joint Bone Spine. 2012 Jan;79(1):13-6. doi: 10.1016/j.jbspin.2011.03.003. Epub
2011 May 5.

Needle aponeurotomy in Dupuytren's disease.

Beaudreuil J(1), Lellouche H, Orcel P, Bardin T.

Author information: 
(1)Unité rhumatologique des affections de la main (URAM), service de
rhumatologie, université Paris 7, hôpital Lariboisière, AP-HP, 2, rue
Ambroise-Paré, 75010 Paris, France. johann.beaudreuil@lrb.aphp.fr

Needle aponeurotomy (NA) is recommended as a nonsurgical treatment for
Dupuytren's disease. The aim of the procedure is to cut the Dupuytren's cord by
use of the bevel of a needle and to restore full extension of the
metacarpophalageal or proximal interphalangeal joints. According to Lermusiaux's 
standard, NA is performed in an outpatient setting, with the patient under local 
anesthesia. It entails the use of a 25-gauge, 16 mm-long needle and an anesthetic
mixture of lidocaine and acetate of prednisolone. Various modifications have been
proposed since the description of Lermusiaux's standard. Lermusiaux's and
modified standards demonstrated structural efficacy in Dupuytren's disease.
Clinical studies indicate that the mean rate of good structural results of NA is 
80% at short-term assessment and 69% at 5-year assessment. Most of the studies
are case series and only one is a randomized trial. Better results are
demonstrated in early stages of the disease. NA also reduces disability and
patients are highly satisfied. The short-term results with Lermusiaux's standard 
do not appear to be impaired in digital involvement. This is not the case for
modified standards providing better results with palmar involvement. Lermusiaux's
standard appears to provide less recurrences and less adverse events. In the
largest study, skin fissure was observed in 8% of hands, transient dysesthesia in
3%, local infection in 0.7%, and flexor tendon rupture in 0.2%. Values were lower
if related to NA sessions or NAs during each session. We therefore recommend
Lermusiaux's standard for safe and effective NA in patients with Dupuytren's
disease.

Copyright © 2011 Société française de rhumatologie. Published by Elsevier SAS.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbspin.2011.03.003 
PMID: 21549632  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
