

152. BMC Med Genomics. 2015 Oct 7;8:59. doi: 10.1186/s12920-015-0135-8.

RNA sequencing reveals a depletion of collagen targeting microRNAs in Dupuytren's
disease.

Riester SM(1), Arsoy D(2), Camilleri ET(3), Dudakovic A(4), Paradise CR(5), Evans
JM(6), Torres-Mora J(7), Rizzo M(8), Kloen P(9), Julio MK(10), van Wijnen AJ(11),
Kakar S(12).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Mayo Clinic, 200 First Street SW, Rochester,
MN, 55905, USA. riester.scott@mayo.edu. (2)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Mayo
Clinic, 200 First Street SW, Rochester, MN, 55905, USA. arsoy.diren@mayo.edu.
(3)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Mayo Clinic, 200 First Street SW, Rochester,
MN, 55905, USA. camilleri.emily@mayo.edu. (4)Department of Orthopedic Surgery,
Mayo Clinic, 200 First Street SW, Rochester, MN, 55905, USA.
dudakovic.amel@mayo.edu. (5)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Mayo Clinic, 200
First Street SW, Rochester, MN, 55905, USA. paradise.christopher@mayo.edu.
(6)Department of Biomedical Statistics and Informatics, Mayo Clinic Rochester,
Rochester, MN, USA. evans.jared@mayo.edu. (7)Department of Anatomic Pathology,
Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA. torresmora.jorge@mayo.edu. (8)Department of
Orthopedic Surgery, Mayo Clinic, 200 First Street SW, Rochester, MN, 55905, USA. 
rizzo.marco@mayo.edu. (9)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Academic Medical
Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. p.kloen@amc.uva.nl. (10)Department of
Urology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The Netherlands.
m.de_julio@lumc.nl. (11)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Mayo Clinic, 200 First 
Street SW, Rochester, MN, 55905, USA. vanwijnen.andre@mayo.edu. (12)Department of
Orthopedic Surgery, Mayo Clinic, 200 First Street SW, Rochester, MN, 55905, USA. 
kakar.sanjeev@mayo.edu.

Erratum in
    BMC Med Genomics. 2016;9(1):34.

BACKGROUND: Dupuytren's disease is an inherited disorder in which patients
develop fibrotic contractures of the hand. Current treatment strategies include
surgical excision or enzymatic digestion of fibrotic tissue. MicroRNAs, which are
key posttranscriptional regulators of genes expression, have been shown to play
an important regulatory role in disorders of fibrosis. Therefore in this
investigation, we apply high throughput next generation RNA sequencing strategies
to characterize microRNA expression in diseased and healthy palmar fascia to
elucidate molecular mechanisms responsible for pathogenic fibrosis.
METHODS: We applied high throughput RNA sequencing techniques to quantify the
expression of all known human microRNAs in Dupuytren's and control palmar fascia.
MicroRNAs that were differentially expressed between diseased and healthy tissue 
samples were used for computational target prediction using the bioinformatics
tool ComiR. Molecular pathways that were predicted to be differentially expressed
based on computational analysis were validated by performing RT-qPCR on RNA
extracted from diseased and non-diseased palmar fascia biopsies.
RESULTS: A comparison of microRNAs expressed in Dupuytren's fascia and control
fascia identified 74 microRNAs with a 2-fold enrichment in Dupuytren's tissue,
and 32 microRNAs with enrichment in control fascia. Computational target
prediction for differentially expressed microRNAs indicated preferential
targeting of collagens and extracellular matrix related proteins in control
palmar fascia. RT-qPCR confirmed the decreased expression of microRNA targeted
collagens in control palmar fascia tissues.
DISCUSSION: Control palmar fascia show decreased expression of mRNAs encoding
collagens that are preferentially targeted by microRNAs enriched in non-diseased 
fascia. Thus alterations in microRNA regulatory networks may play an important
role in driving the pathogenic fibrosis seen in Dupuytren's disease via direct
regulatory effects on extracellular matrix protein synthesis.
CONCLUSION: Dupuytren's fascia and healthy palmar fascia can be distinguished by 
unique microRNA profiles, which are predicted to preferentially target collagens 
and other extracellular matrix proteins.

DOI: 10.1186/s12920-015-0135-8 
PMCID: PMC4597401
PMID: 26446724  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
