

167. Methods Mol Biol. 2012;910:15-31. doi: 10.1007/978-1-61779-965-5_2.

Using functional genomics to identify drug targets: a Dupuytren's disease
example.

Sedic M(1), Pavelic SK, Hock K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biotechnology, University of Rijeka, Rijeka, Croatia.

Research into the molecular mechanism of Dupuytren's disease (DD) illustrates all
the problems common to drug discovery in orphan diseases, but also in more
commonly investigated ailments. Current findings characterize DD as a disease
with complex molecular pathology, with changes in expression of multiple genes
and proteins as well as many contributing risk factors. Some of the observed
changes include genes and proteins that have been identified in a number of other
pathological processes, such as TGF-Î², some which may be more specific to DD,
such as ADAM12, and undoubtedly also some that have yet to be discovered in
future studies. When all these results are taken into consideration, it can be
deduced that DD is an end result of several pathological processes that can have 
many points of origin, and probably involves several subtypes that give rise to
sufficiently similar clinical symptoms to be unified under a single medical term.
Such breadth of view has become possible with the advent of functional genomics
methods and system-wide overview of the molecular processes, which highlight
molecular players and processes that might not be intuitively obvious from
symptoms, as is the case with the observed parallels with wound-healing
processes. As functional genomics methods allow researchers to compile a more
complete image of the molecular mechanisms involved in DD pathogenesis, they also
help to propose new drug targets that can be employed to develop an effective
pharmacological treatment for DD. Identification of key molecular players in DD
has already benefited from the integration of functional genomics and
biocomputational methods, and such approach may reveal new ways how we can
interfere with the emergence of the DD phenotype.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-61779-965-5_2 
PMID: 22821590  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
