

168. Rom J Morphol Embryol. 2014;55(2):377-82.

The chick chorioallantoic membrane: a model of short-term study of Dupuytren's
disease.

Mîndrilă I(1), Pârvănescu H, Pirici D, Niculescu M, Buteică SA, Taisescu O,
Tarnita DN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Morphological Sciences, University of Medicine and Pharmacy of
Craiova, Romania; tutu0101@yahoo.com.

Dupuytren's disease is a progressive fibroproliferative disorder that impairs
hand function by altering the normal structures of the palmar fascial bands.
Nodules composed almost entirely of myofibroblasts and cords are pathognomonic of
Dupuytren's disease. The myofibroblasts express alpha-smooth muscle actin that is
especially involved in development of the disease. We aimed to evaluate whether
the xenograft of Dupuytren's fibromatosis taken from operating room and
transplanted on chick chorioallantoic membrane (CAM) survives with its
histological and immunohistological features. Fresh samples obtained from eight
patients with Dupuytren's disease were minced and immediately inoculated onto 24 
CAMs of 8-day-old chick embryos. The implanted CAMs were examined daily by
stereomicroscopy and finally the xenografts were examined and characterized in
histological sections using a panel of antibodies. The xenografts were
incorporated into the CAMs 6-7 days after transplantation, continued to grow and 
stimulated angiogenesis in the chick embryo CAMs. The CAMs vessels entered the
xenografts and anastomosed with the newly formed xenografts vessels (CD34+ and
CD105+) those containing nucleated chick erythrocytes. Myofibroblasts (α-SMA+)
and macrophages (CD68+) were readily recognized in the xenograft thickness. We
concluded that the xenografts of Dupuytren's fibromatosis transplanted onto chick
embryo CAMs continued to develop and preserved the histological and
immunohistological features.


PMID: 24969989  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
