

169. Joint Bone Spine. 2012 Jan;79(1):7-12. doi: 10.1016/j.jbspin.2011.05.027. Epub
2011 Jul 30.

Genetics of Dupuytren's disease.

Michou L(1), Lermusiaux JL, Teyssedou JP, Bardin T, Beaudreuil J, Petit-Teixeira 
E.

Author information: 
(1)Service de rhumatologie du CHUQ-CHUL, centre de recherche du CHUQ-CHUL,
département de médecine, université Laval, 2705 boulevard Laurier, G1V4G2 Québec,
Canada. laetitia.michou@crchul.ulaval.ca

Dupuytren's disease (DD) is a progressive fibrosis of the palmar fascia
characterized by the formation of a nodule, which evolves into a cord. DD is the 
most common hereditary disease of the connective tissue preferentially affecting 
Caucasoids originating from Northern Europe. Some environmental factors are
associated with DD, namely alcohol consumption, tobacco exposure and, possibly,
manual activities. Diabetes and epilepsy are the most frequently reported
DD-associated diseases. The genetic mode of inheritance is not well understood,
but seems to be heterogeneous: most frequently, autosomal dominant with variable 
penetrance, and rarely recessive autosomal or maternal (matrilinear), suggesting 
a mitochondrial heredity. Initially, a suggestion of linkage with the DUPC1 locus
at 16q was proposed. Then, among the genomic variations observed in DD,
alterations in the copy number of genes in chromosomal regions 10q22, 16p12.1 and
17p12, associations with the HLA-DRB1*15 allele and a mutation in the rRNA 16s
identified in forms with a matrilinear heredity, were reported. Finally, a
genome-wide study has shown a genetic association of DD with 6, 11 and 16
chromosomes. Pathophysiology of DD involves mainly myofibroblasts and the
extracellular matrix of collagen. Gene and protein expression studies have
confirmed the central role of the β catenin of the TGFβ pathways in the
pathogenesis of DD.

Copyright © 2011 Société française de rhumatologie. Published by Elsevier SAS.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbspin.2011.05.027 
PMID: 21803632  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
