

18. Arch Plast Surg. 2012 Jul;39(4):426-30. doi: 10.5999/aps.2012.39.4.426. Epub 2012
Jul 13.

The Surgical Release of Dupuytren's Contracture Using Multiple Transverse
Incisions.

Lee H(1), Eo S, Cho S, Jones NF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Dongguk University Ilsan
Hospital, Dongguk Graduate School of Medicine, Goyang, Korea.

Dupuytren's contracture is a condition commonly encountered by hand surgeons,
although it is rare in the Asian population. Various surgical procedures for
Dupuytren's contracture have been reported, and the outcomes vary according to
the treatment modalities. We report the treatment results of segmental
fasciectomies with multiple transverse incisions for patients with Dupuytren's
contracture. The cases of seven patients who underwent multiple segmental
fasciectomies with multiple transverse incisions for Dupuytren's contracture from
2006 to 2011 were reviewed retrospectively. Multiple transverse incisions to the 
severe contracture sites were performed initially, and additional incisions to
the metacarpophalangeal (MCP) joints, and the proximal interphalangeal (PIP)
joints were performed if necessary. Segmental fasciectomies by removing the
fibromatous nodules or cords between the incision lines were performed and the
wound margins were approximated. The mean range of motion of the involved MCP
joints and PIP joints was fully recovered. During the follow-up periods, there
was no evidence of recurrence or progression of disease. Multiple transverse
incisions for Dupuytren's contracture are technically challenging, and require a 
high skill level of hand surgeons. However, we achieved excellent correction of
contractures with no associated complications. Therefore, segmental fasciectomies
with multiple transverse incisions can be a good treatment option for Dupuytren's
contracture.

DOI: 10.5999/aps.2012.39.4.426 
PMCID: PMC3408292
PMID: 22872850  [PubMed]
