

182. Orthopedics. 2014 Jul;37(7):e657-60. doi: 10.3928/01477447-20140626-64.

Multiple collagenase injections are safe for treatment of Dupuytren's
contractures.

Gajendran VK, Hentz V, Kenney D, Curtin CM.

The authors report the case of a 65-year-old, right-hand-dominant man who had
severe Dupuytren's disease with multiple cords and flexion contractures of the
metacarpophalangeal and proximal interphalangeal joints of both hands and
underwent repeated collagenase injections for treatment. Collagenase has been
shown to be safe and effective in the treatment of Dupuytren's contractures when 
administered as a single dose, but the results of multiple injections over a
prolonged period are unknown. Antibodies to collagenase develop in all patients
after several treatments, raising concerns about safety and efficacy as a result 
of sensitization from repeated exposures. The antibodies generated as a result of
repeated exposure to collagenase could theoretically render it less effective
with time and could also lead to immune reactions as severe as anaphylaxis. The
authors present the case of a single patient who experienced continued correction
of his contractures with only minor and self-limited adverse reactions after
administration of 12 collagenase doses through 15 injections during a 4-year
period. Over time, the injections continued to be effective at correcting
metacarpophalangeal joint contractures, but less effective at correcting proximal
interphalangeal joint contractures. The patient did eventually require a
fasciectomy, but the safety and modest success of the repeated collagenase
injections shows promise for a less invasive treatment with a better risk profile
than open fasciectomy. Although further studies are needed, repeated
administration of collagenase appears to be safe and modestly effective for
severe Dupuytren's contractures, although a fasciectomy may ultimately be
required in the most severe cases.

Copyright 2014, SLACK Incorporated.

DOI: 10.3928/01477447-20140626-64 
PMID: 24992063  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
