

184. Man Ther. 2015 Aug;20(4):580-6. doi: 10.1016/j.math.2015.01.010. Epub 2015 Jan
29.

Intra- and inter-observer agreement on diagnosis of Dupuytren disease,
measurements of severity of contracture, and disease extent.

Broekstra DC(1), Lanting R(2), Werker PM(3), van den Heuvel ER(4).

Author information: 
(1)University of Groningen, University Medical Center Groningen, Department of
Plastic Surgery, HPC BB81, P.O. Box 30.001, 9700 RB, Groningen, The Netherlands. 
Electronic address: d.c.broekstra@umcg.nl. (2)University of Groningen, University
Medical Center Groningen, Department of Plastic Surgery, HPC BB81, P.O. Box
30.001, 9700 RB, Groningen, The Netherlands. Electronic address:
r.lanting@umcg.nl. (3)University of Groningen, University Medical Center
Groningen, Department of Plastic Surgery, HPC BB81, P.O. Box 30.001, 9700 RB,
Groningen, The Netherlands. Electronic address: p.m.n.werker@umcg.nl.
(4)University of Groningen, University Medical Center Groningen, Department of
Epidemiology, Groningen, The Netherlands. Electronic address:
e.r.v.d.heuvel@tue.nl.

INTRODUCTION: Dupuytren disease (DD) is a fibrosing disease affecting the palmar 
aponeurosis, and is mostly treated by surgery based on measurement of severity of
flexion contracture of the fingers. Literature concerning the measurement
reliability is scarce. This study aimed to determine the intra- and
inter-observer agreement of four variables for diagnosing DD, determining
severity of contracture, and disease extent. One of them is a new measurement on 
the area of nodules and cords for measuring the disease extent in early disease
stages.
METHODS: An agreement study (n = 54) was performed by two trained investigators. 
Agreement was calculated per finger, based on an intraclass correlation
coefficient (ICC) using a latent variable model on subjects for diagnosis and
Tubiana stage. For total passive extension deficit (TPED) and the area of nodules
and cords, agreement was calculated with an ICC using a one-way random effects
model with subject as random effect.
RESULTS: Inter-observer agreement was very good for diagnosing DD (ICC:
95.5%-99.9%) and good to very good for classifying Tubiana stage (ICC:
73.5%-94.9%). Agreements for area and TPED were moderate (middle finger) to very 
good (ICC: 48.4%-98.6% and 45.0%-99.5%, respectively). Intra-observer agreement
was slightly higher on average than inter-observer agreement.
CONCLUSION: Overall, the intra- and inter-observer agreement in diagnosing DD,
and determining the severity of flexion contracture is high. Also, the newly
introduced variable area of nodules and cords has high intra- and inter-observer 
agreement, indicating that it is suitable to measure disease extent.

Copyright Â© 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.math.2015.01.010 
PMID: 25682557  [PubMed - in process]
