

185. J Hand Surg Am. 2015 Oct;40(10):1963-71. doi: 10.1016/j.jhsa.2015.06.099. Epub
2015 Jul 26.

The Efficacy and Safety of Concurrent Collagenase Clostridium Histolyticum
Injections for 2 Dupuytren Contractures in the Same Hand: A Prospective,
Multicenter Study.

Gaston RG(1), Larsen SE(2), Pess GM(3), Coleman S(4), Dean B(5), Cohen BM(5),
Kaufman GJ(5), Tursi JP(5), Hurst LC(6).

Author information: 
(1)OrthoCarolina, Inc., Charlotte, NC. Electronic address:
glenn.gaston@orthocarolina.com. (2)Unit for Hand Surgery, Department of
Orthopaedics, Odense University Hospital, Odense, Denmark. (3)Central Jersey Hand
Surgery, Eatontown, NJ. (4)Brisbane Hand and Upper Limb Clinic, Brisbane,
Queensland, Australia. (5)Auxilium Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Chesterbrook, PA.
(6)Stony Brook University Medical Center, Stony Brook, NY.

PURPOSE: To evaluate efficacy and safety of concurrent administration of 2
collagenase clostridium histolyticum (CCH) injections to treat 2 joints in the
same hand with Dupuytren fixed flexion contractures (FFCs).
METHODS: Patients with 2 or more contractures in the same hand caused by palpable
cords participated in a 60-day, multicenter, open-label, phase 3b study. Two 0.58
mg CCH doses were injected into 1 or 2 cords in the same hand (1 injection per
affected joint) during the same visit. Finger extension was performed
approximately 24, 48, or 72 or more hours later. Changes in FFC and range of
motion, incidence of clinical success (FFC ≤ 5°), and adverse events (AEs) were
summarized.
RESULTS: The study enrolled 715 patients (725 treated joint pairs), and 714
patients (724 joint pairs) were analyzed for efficacy. At day 31, mean total FFC 
(sum of 2 treated joints) decreased 74%, from 98° to 27°. Mean total range of
motion increased from 90° to 156°. The incidence of clinical success was 65% in
metacarpophalangeal joints and 29% in proximal interphalangeal joints. Most
treatment-related AEs were mild to moderate, resolving without intervention; the 
most common were swelling of treated extremity, contusion, and pain in extremity.
The incidence of skin lacerations was 22% (160 of 715). Efficacy and safety were 
similar regardless of time to finger extension.
CONCLUSIONS: Collagenase clostridium histolyticum can be used to effectively
treat 2 affected joints concurrently without a greater risk of AEs than treatment
of a single joint, with the exception of skin laceration. The incidence of
clinical success in this study after 1 injection per joint was comparable to
phase 3 study results after 3 or more injections per joint. Two concurrent CCH
injections may allow more rapid overall treatment of multiple affected joints,
and the ability to vary the time between CCH injection and finger extension may
allow physicians and patients greater flexibility with scheduling treatment.

Copyright © 2015 American Society for Surgery of the Hand. Published by Elsevier 
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhsa.2015.06.099 
PMID: 26216077  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
