

191. Open Orthop J. 2012;6:77-82. doi: 10.2174/1874325001206010077. Epub 2012 Feb 23.

Recent Surgical and Medical Advances in the Treatment of Dupuytren's Disease - A 
Systematic Review of the Literature.

R M(1), S H, W K.

Author information: 
(1)The Hull York Medical School, Hertford Building, Hull, HU6 7RX, UK.

Dupuytren's disease (DD) is a type of fibromatosis which progressively results in
the shortening and thickening of the fibrous tissue of the palmar fascia. This
condition which predominantly affects white-northern Europeans has been
identified since 1614. DD can affect certain activities of daily living such as
face washing, combing hair and putting hand in a glove. The origin of Dupuytren's
contracture is still unknown, but there are a number of treatments that doctors
have come across throughout the years. Historically surgery has been the mainstay
treatment for DD but not the only one. The objective is to make a structured
review of the most recent advances in treatment of DD including the surgical and 
medical interventions. We have looked at the most relevant published articles
regarding the various treatment options for DD. This review has taken 55 articles
into consideration which have met the inclusion criteria. The most recent
treatments used are multi-needle aponeurotomy, extensive percutaneous
aponeurotomy and lipografting, injecting collagenase Clostridium histolyticum,
INF-gamma and shockwave therapy as well as radiotherapy. Each of these treatments
has certain advantages and drawbacks and cannot be used for every patient. In
order to prevent this condition, spending more time and money in the topic is
required to reach better and more consistent treatments and ultimately to
eradicate this disease.

DOI: 10.2174/1874325001206010077 
PMCID: PMC3293169
PMID: 22431952  [PubMed]
