

195. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2012 Jun;1822(6):897-905. doi:
10.1016/j.bbadis.2012.02.001. Epub 2012 Feb 9.

MMP-14 and MMP-2 are key metalloproteases in Dupuytren's disease
fibroblast-mediated contraction.

Wilkinson JM(1), Davidson RK, Swingler TE, Jones ER, Corps AN, Johnston P, Riley 
GP, Chojnowski AJ, Clark IM.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of East Anglia, Norwich Research
Park, NR4 7TJ, UK.

Dupuytren's disease (DD) is a common fibrotic condition of the palmar fascia,
leading to deposition of collagen-rich cords and progressive flexion of the
fingers. The molecular mechanisms underlying the disease are poorly understood.
We have previously shown altered expression of extracellular matrix-degrading
proteases (matrix metalloproteases, MMPs, and 'a disintegrin and metalloprotease 
domain with thrombospondin motifs', ADAMTS, proteases) in palmar fascia from DD
patients compared to control and shown that the expression of a sub-set of these 
genes correlates with post-operative outcome. In the current study we used an in 
vitro model of collagen contraction to identify the specific proteases which
mediate this effect. We measured the expression of all MMPs, ADAMTSs and their
inhibitors in fibroblasts derived from the palmar fascia of DD patients, both in 
monolayer culture and in the fibroblast-populated collagen lattice (FPCL) model
of cell-mediated contraction. Key proteases, previously identified in our tissue 
studies, were expressed in vitro and regulated by tension in the FPCL, including 
MMP1, 2, 3, 13 and 14. Knockdown of MMP2 and MMP14 (but not MMP1, 3 and 13)
inhibited cell-mediated contraction, and knockdown of MMP14 inhibited proMMP-2
activation. Interestingly, whilst collagen is degraded during the FPCL assay,
this is not altered upon knockdown of any of the proteases examined. We conclude 
that MMP-14 (via its ability to activate proMMP-2) and MMP-2 are key proteases in
collagen contraction mediated by fibroblasts in DD patients. These proteases may 
be drug targets or act as biomarkers for disease progression.

Â© 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbadis.2012.02.001 
PMID: 22342364  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
