

198. J Hand Surg Eur Vol. 2016 Mar 11. pii: 1753193416635489. [Epub ahead of print]

Increased expression of αv integrin as a regulator of fibrosis in Dupuytren's
nodules.

Matsui Y(1), Kon S(2), Funakoshi T(1), Miyashita T(2), Matsuda T(2), Iwasaki
N(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Hokkaido University Graduate School of
Medicine, Sapporo, Japan. (2)Department of Immunology, Faculty of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Hokkaido University, Sapporo, Japan. (3)Department of Orthopaedic
Surgery, Hokkaido University Graduate School of Medicine, Sapporo, Japan
niwasaki@med.hokudai.ac.jp.

Although Dupuytren's contracture is characterized by increased transforming
growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1) and fibrosis in the palmar fascia, the relationship
between TGF-β1 and integrins, which are considered to be related to fibrosis,
remains unclear. We investigated the involvement of TGF-β1 and integrins in the
pathological palmar fascia of Dupuytren's contracture. Seven patients underwent
partial fasciectomy for treatment of this disease. The nodule and cord were
isolated from the fascial tissues of the patients. Control fasciae were obtained 
from seven patients with carpal tunnel syndrome. Immunohistochemical analysis was
performed to detect the fibrosis marker α-smooth muscle actin and integrins in
the fascial tissues. The expression of TGF-β1 and integrins was assessed by
real-time polymerase chain reaction. The results suggest that nodules may be
areas involved in activation of fibrosis in the fascia, associated with increased
expression of TGF-β1 and αv integrin. Thus, αv integrin may contribute to
fibrosis in Dupuytren's contracture by activating TGF-β1.LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: IV.

© The Author(s) 2016.

DOI: 10.1177/1753193416635489 
PMID: 26969686  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]
