

2. Bone Joint J. 2013 Aug;95-B(8):1094-100. doi: 10.1302/0301-620X.95B8.31822.

Cost-effectiveness in the management of Dupuytren's contracture. A Canadian
cost-utility analysis of current and future management strategies.

Baltzer H(1), Binhammer PA.

Author information: 
(1)Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, 2075 Bayview Avenue, Toronto, Ontario,
Canada. heather.baltzer@utoronto.ca

In Canada, Dupuytren's contracture is managed with partial fasciectomy or
percutaneous needle aponeurotomy (PNA). Injectable collagenase will soon be
available. The optimal management of Dupuytren's contracture is controversial and
trade-offs exist between the different methods. Using a cost-utility analysis
approach, our aim was to identify the most cost-effective form of treatment for
managing Dupuytren's contracture it and the threshold at which collagenase is
cost-effective. We developed an expected-value decision analysis model for
Dupuytren's contracture affecting a single finger, comparing the
cost-effectiveness of fasciectomy, aponeurotomy and collagenase from a societal
perspective. Cost-effectiveness, one-way sensitivity and variability analyses
were performed using standard thresholds for cost effective treatment ($50 000 to
$100 000/QALY gained). Percutaneous needle aponeurotomy was the preferred
strategy for managing contractures affecting a single finger. The
cost-effectiveness of primary aponeurotomy improved when repeated to treat
recurrence. Fasciectomy was not cost-effective. Collagenase was cost-effective
relative to and preferred over aponeurotomy at $875 and $470 per course of
treatment, respectively. In summary, our model supports the trend towards
non-surgical interventions for managing Dupuytren's contracture affecting a
single finger. Injectable collagenase will only be feasible in our publicly
funded healthcare system if it costs significantly less than current United
States pricing.

DOI: 10.1302/0301-620X.95B8.31822 
PMID: 23908426  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
