

201. J Plast Surg Hand Surg. 2014 Feb;48(1):28-33. doi: 10.3109/2000656X.2013.794349. 
Epub 2013 May 13.

The Southampton Dupuytren's Scoring Scheme.

Mohan A(1), Vadher J, Ismail H, Warwick D.

Author information: 
(1)Orthopaedic Registrar, Department of Orthopaedics, Southampton University
Hospitals , Southampton , UK.

The aim of this study was to construct and validate a simple patient-related
outcome score to quantify the disability caused by Dupuytren's disease (DD), thus
enabling prioritisation of treatment, to allow reliable audit of surgical outcome
and to support future research. The Southampton Dupuytren's Scoring System (SDSS)
was developed in a staged fashion according to the recommendations of The Derby
Outcomes Conference. (1) Item generation; (2) Item reduction; (3) Internal
consistency; (4) Test-re-test; (5) Field management; (6) Sensitivity to change
standardised response mean; and (7) Criterion validity: ability of the SDSS to
measure what it is supposed to measure. Internal consistency measured with
Cronbach's alpha indicated acceptable reliability. The test-re-test correlation
coefficient showed high reliability with SDSS. Field-testing showed SDSS ratings 
to be higher than the QuickDASH (Disability of the arm, shoulder and hand)
ratings evaluated by the patients who answered both questionnaires. Standardised 
response mean was more sensitive for SDSS compared with QuickDASH showing
sensitivity to change. Criterion validity was used to assess if the SDSS was
measuring what it is supposed to measure comparing the SDSS with QuickDASH. A
highly significant correlation was found between the two scoring systems. SDSS is
a disease-specific patient-related outcome measure with a good internal
consistency and performs better than QuickDASH in terms of test-re-test
reliability and sensitivity to change. SDSS shows better field-testing attributes
suggesting that it is a relatively more patient and practitioner friendly scoring
system. This study proposes to the SDSS is a useful patient-related outcome
measure for DD.

DOI: 10.3109/2000656X.2013.794349 
PMID: 24428161  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
