

204. Ann Rheum Dis. 2012 Sep;71(9):1440-7. doi: 10.1136/annrheumdis-2012-201295. Epub 
2012 Jul 6.

Whole genome and global expression profiling of Dupuytren's disease: systematic
review of current findings and future perspectives.

Shih B(1), Watson S, Bayat A.

Author information: 
(1)Correspondence to Dr Ardeshir Bayat, School of Translational Medicine,
Manchester Interdisciplinary Biocentre, University of Manchester, 131 Princess
Street, Manchester, M1 7DN, England, UK.

Dupuytren's disease (DD) is a common fibroproliferative disorder affecting the
palmar fascia, which may lead to permanent contracture of the affected digit.
Profiling studies investigating DD at whole-genomic, transcriptomic and proteomic
levels have been carried out, from which large numbers of candidate genes
potentially involved in DD have been reported. This review focuses on identifying
genes reported by multiple studies or validated by multiple experimental
techniques, as well as signalling pathways suggested to contribute to DD.
Meta-analysis was also carried out on three microarray datasets. Twenty-one genes
were found to be reported as dysregulated in multiple gene expression
microarrays, seven of which have been further validated by other experimental
methods. Sixty-four genes determined to be dsyregulated by meta-analysis
correlate to those reported by published microarray studies. In addition, several
pathways have been proposed to be involved in DD by whole-genome or global
expression profiling. Further investigation in these genes and pathways, and
correlating them to genotypes or environmental factors for DD, may aid in further
elucidation of mechanisms involved in DD pathogenesis.

DOI: 10.1136/annrheumdis-2012-201295 
PMID: 22772327  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
