

208. J Hand Surg Eur Vol. 2014 Jun;39(5):472-6. doi: 10.1177/1753193413502161. Epub
2013 Sep 11.

Angular correction related to excision of specific cords in fasciectomy for
Dupuytren's disease.

Trickett RW(1), Savage R(2), Logan AJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)Trauma and Orthopaedic Department, Royal Gwent Hospital, Newport, UK
ryan@trickett00.fsnet.co.uk. (2)Trauma and Orthopaedic Department, Royal Gwent
Hospital, Newport, UK. (3)Trauma and Orthopaedic Department, University Hospital 
of Wales, Cardiff, UK.

Named cords were excised sequentially at fasciectomy for Dupuytren's disease and 
the resultant correction in the joint angle was measured intra-operatively in 99 
fingers. Eighty-two metacarpophalangeal and 59 proximal interphalangeal joints
were affected. At the metacarpophalangeal joint, excision of the central cord
resulted in 82% correction in 69 joints, and spiral/lateral cord excision
resulted in an additional 12% correction in 10 joints. At the proximal
interphalangeal joint, excision of the central cord resulted in 44% correction in
36 joints, spiral/lateral cord excision resulted in an additional 19% correction 
in 16 joints, and retrovascular cord excision resulted in a further 23%
correction in 27 joints. Subsequent division of the accessory collateral ligament
resulted in a further 14% correction in 14 joints. Larger pre-operative angles of
the proximal interphalangeal joint were associated with a retrovascular cord, and
larger combined angles were associated with an increasing number of pathological 
structures involved. The data explain the complexity of surgery at the proximal
interphalangeal joint, where four structures are implicated in causing flexion
deformity.

Â© The Author(s) 2013.

DOI: 10.1177/1753193413502161 
PMID: 24027133  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
