

214. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2014 Apr 16;96(8):655-62. doi: 10.2106/JBJS.L.01623.

High-dosage tamoxifen as neoadjuvant treatment in minimally invasive surgery for 
Dupuytren disease in patients with a strong predisposition toward fibrosis: a
randomized controlled trial.

Degreef I(1), Tejpar S(2), Sciot R(3), De Smet L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Hand Unit, Orthopaedic Department, Pellenberg Campus, University Hospitals
Leuven, Weligerveld 1, 3212 Pellenberg, Belgium. E-mail address for I. Degreef:
ilse.degreef@uzleuven.be. E-mail address for L. De Smet: luc.desmet@uzleuven.be. 
(2)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Internal Medicine, Gasthuisberg
Campus, University Hospitals Leuven, Herestraat 49, 3000 Leuven, Belgium. E-mail 
address: sabine.tejpar@uzleuven.be. (3)Department of Pathology, Sint-Raphael
Campus, University Hospitals Leuven, Capucijnenvoer 33, 3000 Leuven, Belgium.
E-mail address: raf.sciot@uzleuven.be.

BACKGROUND: Tamoxifen, a synthetic nonsteroidal anti-estrogen known to modulate
the production of transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-Î²), has demonstrated
effectiveness on fibroblast activity in vitro and in vivo. The main purpose of
this study was to investigate the effect of tamoxifen on the outcome of surgery
for Dupuytren contractures in patients with a strong predisposition toward
fibrosis.
METHODS: We used a prospective, randomized, double-blind study protocol
(conforming to the CONSORT standards) to investigate the influence of tamoxifen
compared with placebo on the total passive extension deficit in the finger and
patient satisfaction after subtotal fasciectomy in thirty patients with a strong 
predisposition toward fibrosis (grade, >4 according to the Abe scale).
High-dosage tamoxifen (80 mg/day) was administered from six weeks prior until
twelve weeks after surgery, and patients were monitored for two years.
RESULTS: Three months after surgery, patients in the tamoxifen group had a
smaller total passive extension deficit and higher satisfaction compared with the
placebo group. This positive effect was lost over the two years following
cessation of the medication.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrated that the short-term outcome of Dupuytren
disease treatment could be influenced by use of tamoxifen as a neoadjuvant from
six weeks prior to three months after subtotal fasciectomy in patients with a
strong predisposition toward fibrosis. However, the beneficial effect disappeared
within two years after surgery, with worsening of the contractures after the
medication was discontinued. Thus, tamoxifen may have a short-term effect on the 
outcome of surgery for Dupuytren disease.

DOI: 10.2106/JBJS.L.01623 
PMID: 24740662  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
