

215. J Dermatol Sci. 2016 Aug;83(2):131-7. doi: 10.1016/j.jdermsci.2016.04.015. Epub
2016 May 7.

Dupuytren's disease susceptibility gene, EPDR1, is involved in myofibroblast
contractility.

Staats KA(1), Wu T(1), Gan BS(2), O'Gorman DB(2), Ophoff RA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neurobehavioral Genetics, Semel Institute for Neuroscience and
Human Behavior, University of California Los Angeles, CA, USA. (2)Department of
Surgery, University of Western Ontario, St Joseph's Health Centre, London,
Ontario, Canada; Cell and Molecular Biology Laboratory, Hand and Upper Limb
Centre, London, Ontario, Canada. (3)Center for Neurobehavioral Genetics, Semel
Institute for Neuroscience and Human Behavior, University of California Los
Angeles, CA, USA; Department of Human Genetics, David Geffen School of Medicine, 
University of California Los Angeles, CA, USA; Brain Center Rudolf Magnus,
Department of Psychiatry, University Medical Center Utrecht, The Netherlands.
Electronic address: Ophoff@ucla.edu.

BACKGROUND: Dupuytren's Disease is a common disorder of the connective tissue
characterized by progressive and irreversible fibroblastic proliferation
affecting the palmar fascia. Progressive flexion deformity appears over several
months or years and although usually painless, it can result in a serious
handicap causing loss of manual dexterity. There is no cure for the disease and
the etiology is largely unknown. A genome-wide association study of Dupuytren's
Disease identified nine susceptibility loci with the strongest genetic signal
located in an intron of EPDR1, the gene encoding the Ependymin Related 1 protein.
OBJECTIVE: Here, we investigate the role of EPDR1 in Dupuytren's Disease.
METHODS: We research the role of EPDR1 by assessing gene expression in patient
tissue and by gene silencing in fibroblast-populated collagen lattice (FPCL)
assay, which is used as an in vitro model of Dupuytren's contractures.
RESULTS: The three alternative transcripts produced by the EPDR1 gene are all
detected in affected Dupuytren's tissue and control unaffected palmar fascia
tissue. Dupuytren's tissue also contracts more in the FPCL paradigm.
Dicer-substrate RNA-mediated knockdown of EPDR1 results in moderate late stage
attenuation of contraction rate in FPCL, implying a role in matrix contraction.
CONCLUSION: Our results suggest functional involvement of EPDR1 in the etiology
of Dupuytren's Disease.

Copyright Â© 2016. Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jdermsci.2016.04.015 
PMID: 27245865  [PubMed - in process]
