

224. J Hand Surg Eur Vol. 2016 Jul;41(6):589-99. doi: 10.1177/1753193415601350. Epub
2015 Aug 25.

Validity of the Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand patient-reported
outcome measure (DASH) and the Quickdash when used in Dupuytren's disease.

Rodrigues J(1), Zhang W(2), Scammell B(2), Russell P(3), Chakrabarti I(4),
Fullilove S(5), Davidson D(6), Davis T(2).

Author information: 
(1)Nuffield Department of Orthopaedics, Rheumatology and Musculoskeletal
Sciences, University of Oxford, Botnar Research Centre, Nuffield Orthopaedic
Centre, Oxford, UK j.n.rodrigues@doctors.org.uk. (2)Division of Rheumatology,
Orthopaedics and Dermatology, University of Nottingham & Nottingham University
Hospitals NHS Trust, Queen's Medical Centre, Nottingham, UK. (3)Pulvertaft Hand
Centre, Royal Derby Hospital, Uttoxeter New Road, Derby, UK. (4)Rotherham General
Hospital, Rotherham, UK. (5)Derriford Hospital, Plymouth, UK. (6)St John's
Hospital at Howden, Livingston, UK.

This study investigated aspects of the validity and reliability of the 30-item
Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand patient-reported outcome measure
(DASH) and its relationship with the shorter 11-item QuickDASH in patients with
Dupuytren's disease.Seven hundred and fifty-nine DASH questionnaires were
studied, covering pre- and postoperative patients undergoing different treatments
for Dupuytren's disease. Items related to pain rose early after treatment before 
returning to baseline, suggesting that studying pain is relevant during
postoperative recovery. Across all 759 sets of responses, the QuickDASH agreed
closely with the DASH. In exploratory factor analysis, the DASH was not
unidimensional, questioning the validity of the DASH summary score in Dupuytren's
disease.Further validation of existing PROMs for use in Dupuytren's disease is
needed. These data suggest that pain is a relevant symptom to study during
postoperative recovery following treatment for Dupuytren's disease.LEVEL OF
EVIDENCE: III.

Â© The Author(s) 2015.

DOI: 10.1177/1753193415601350 
PMID: 26307142  [PubMed - in process]
