

225. Clin Exp Dermatol. 2014 Dec;39(8):894-9. doi: 10.1111/ced.12424. Epub 2014 Sep 5.

The prevalence of Dupuytren contractures in patients with psoriasis.

Patel M(1), Freeman NR, Dhaliwal S, Wright N, Daoud Y, Ryan C, Dibella AV, Menter
A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Baylor Research Institute, Dallas, TX, USA.

BACKGROUND: Dupuytren contracture (DC) is a fibrocontractile disease of the
palms, affecting approximately 4% of the population, while psoriasis is an
immune-mediated disease, affecting 2% of the population. Through clinical
observation in our psoriasis clinic, we found an apparent increased prevalence of
DC in patients with psoriasis compared with the general population. This has not 
previously been statistically verified in a clinical study.
AIM: To evaluate the prevalence of DC in the full range of clinical psoriasis
phenotypes.
METHODS: In total, 98 patients with psoriasis attending our psoriasis clinic were
examined for DC, based on predetermined criteria. In addition, 84 patients with
DC, obtained from a specialist hand clinic, were assessed using a validated
psoriasis questionnaire. We utilized Bayes theorem and bootstrap simulation to
calculate the conditional prevalence of DC, then we used the results to compare
the prevalence of DC between patients with psoriasis and a nonpsoriasis
population.
RESULTS: The percentage of patients with DC was 19.6% in the psoriasis population
and 3.6% in the nonpsoriasis population. Development of DC showed a phenotypic
predilection, with 39.1% of patients with predominantly palmoplantar involvement 
and 38.9% of patients with intertriginous psoriasis developing DC compared with
12.7% of patients with psoriasis who did not have these two phenotypical
presentations.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data show a positive correlation between psoriasis and DC.
Patients with the palmoplantar phenotype of psoriasis were more likely to develop
DC. By understanding this relationship, dermatologists may diagnose DC early in
its onset in patients with psoriasis, prompting referral to hand surgeons when
appropriate.

Â© 2014 British Association of Dermatologists.

DOI: 10.1111/ced.12424 
PMID: 25196833  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
