

227. J Hand Surg Am. 2014 Oct;39(10):1942-7. doi: 10.1016/j.jhsa.2014.07.018. Epub
2014 Aug 20.

Steroid injection and needle aponeurotomy for Dupuytren disease: long-term
follow-up of a randomized controlled trial.

McMillan C(1), Binhammer P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Sunnybrook Health Sciences
Centre, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. (2)Division of Plastic and Reconstructive
Surgery, Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Electronic 
address: p.binhammer@utoronto.ca.

PURPOSE: To compare long-term outcomes and retreatment rates for patients with
Dupuytren disease who underwent needle aponeurotomy (NA) combined with a series
of triamcinolone acetonide injections or underwent NA alone as part of a prior
randomized controlled trial.
METHODS: During this follow-up study, 44 of 47 participants in the original study
were examined as needed between 6 and 53 months from their initial procedure.
Those who had not been reassessed within 18 months of the original NA were asked 
to return for follow-up. The average total active extension deficit (TAED) of
previously treated joints was compared between groups 7 to 12, 13 to 24, 25 to
36, and 37 to 48 months following treatment. Timing of retreatment (if performed)
was recorded.
RESULTS: Forty-four participants returned for assessment an average of 4.8 times 
over 53 months. Mean TAED was significantly less in needle aponeurotomy
triamcinolone injection patients at 6 months and between 13 and 24 months.
Sixty-two percent of NA group patients and 30% of needle aponeurotomy
triamcinolone injection patients returned for a second treatment on the same
digit(s) (retreatment). This difference was not significant. Mean time to
retreatment and mean TAED immediately prior to retreatment did not differ
significantly between groups. Kaplan-Meier survival estimates demonstrated a
significantly higher percentage of NA group patients expected to return for
retreatment by 24 but not by 36 months. Younger age, more than one joint treated 
at the initial NA, and TAED severity throughout the follow-up period were
associated with earlier retreatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Serial triamcinolone injections combined with NA was associated with
lower TAED for up to 24 months. A larger study would more accurately quantify the
potential benefits of combining triamcinolone injections with NA for treatment of
Dupuytren disease.
TYPE OF STUDY/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic III.

Copyright © 2014 American Society for Surgery of the Hand. Published by Elsevier 
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhsa.2014.07.018 
PMID: 25149899  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
