

23. Clin Drug Investig. 2011 Nov 1;31(11):791-8. doi:
10.2165/11592940-000000000-00000.

Determining clinically important changes in range of motion in patients with
Dupuytren's Contracture: secondary analysis of the randomized, double-blind,
placebo-controlled CORD I study.

Witthaut J(1), Bushmakin AG, Gerber RA, Cappelleri JC, Le Graverand-Gastineau MP.

Author information: 
(1)Hand Surgery Department, University Hospital, Uppsala, Sweden.
witthaut@e-hand.de

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Injectable collagenase Clostridium histolyticum is
efficacious in correcting Dupuytren's contracture as assessed by changes in the
angle of contracture and range of motion (ROM). However, clinically important
changes in ROM have not been evaluated in depth. The objective of this secondary 
analysis of the CORD I trial was to identify severity levels using baseline ROM, 
estimate a clinically important difference (CID) for ROM, and link the results to
collagenase treatment and patient satisfaction.
METHODS: In the CORD I trial, patients with Dupuytren's disease and joint
contractures ≥20° were randomized to receive a maximum of three collagenase 0.58 
mg or placebo injections into the cord of the affected hand at 30-day intervals. 
The primary endpoint was reduction in contracture to ≤5° 30 days after the last
injection (day 30). The secondary endpoints, which are reported in this analysis,
were ROM, physician- and patient-rated severity ('normal', 'mild', 'moderate',
'severe') and improvement, and treatment satisfaction. Linear regression was used
to model data for severity classification and CID estimation for ROM based on
physician and patient ratings.
RESULTS: At baseline, mean ROM was 43.9° in the collagenase-treated joints (n =
197) and 45.3° in the placebo-treated joints (n = 102). On day 30, mean ROM was
80.7° in the collagenase-treated joints and 49.5° in the placebo-treated joints. 
The mean increase in ROM was 36.7° in the collagenase-treated joints (p < 0.001) 
and 4.0° in the placebo-treated joints (not significant). The estimated CID for
ROM was 13.5° (95% CI 11.9, 15.1), reflecting a one-category change in severity. 
The mean increase in ROM exceeded the CID in the collagenase-treated joints but
not in the placebo-treated joints; the difference between collagenase treatment
and placebo in the mean increase in ROM also exceeded the CID, implying that the 
improvement with collagenase was clinically relevant. The severity classification
for ROM was: ≥67.0° ('normal'), ≥54.3 and <67.0° ('mild'), ≥41.6 and <54.3°
('moderate'), and <41.6° ('severe'). More collagenase- than placebo-treated
patients achieved 'normal' (81% vs 25%; p < 0.0001) status, and more collagenase-
than placebo-treated patients reported being 'very/quite satisfied' (87% vs 32%; 
p < 0.001).
CONCLUSION: Injectable collagenase significantly improves ROM and treatment
satisfaction versus placebo. ROM improvements are clinically relevant as well as 
statistically significant. These data support the potential need to include ROM
and physician- and patient-rated severity and satisfaction as standard
assessments for Dupuytren's contracture treatment outcomes.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT00528606; other study
identification number: AUX-CC-857 (Auxilium Pharmaceuticals, Inc.).

DOI: 10.2165/11592940-000000000-00000 
PMID: 21967070  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
