

231. J Hand Surg Eur Vol. 2016 Jul;41(6):614-20. doi: 10.1177/1753193415626113. Epub
2016 Jan 14.

Does collagenase injection disrupt or digest the Dupuytren's cord: a magnetic
resonance imaging study.

Crivello KM(1), Potter HG(2), Moon ES(3), Rancy SK(4), Wolfe SW(5).

Author information: 
(1)Mercer Bucks Orthopaedics, Lawrenceville, NJ, USA. (2)The Hospital for Special
Surgery, New York, NY, USA. (3)Mt. Tam Orthopedics and Sports Medicine, Larkspur,
CA, USA. (4)The Hospital for Special Surgery, New York, USA. (5)The Hospital for 
Special Surgery, New York, USA wolfes@hss.edu.

Collagenase clostridium histolyticum has been extensively studied as a treatment 
modality for Dupuytren's contracture. Its mechanism of action has been
documented. It is unknown whether injected collagenase weakens the Dupuytren's
cord sufficiently to cause failure during manipulation or if there is digestion
and reduction in cord volume. We examined five patients with isolated
contractures of the ring or middle metacarpalphalangeal (MP) joint using magnetic
resonance imaging (MRI) prior to injection with collagenase and again 1 month
following injection. All patients had full correction after manipulation which
was maintained at follow-up. The Dupuytren's cord was evaluated with respect to
volume, signal intensity, inflammatory changes and continuity. Additionally,
signal intensity changes of the flexor tendons and neurovascular structures were 
recorded. MRI demonstrated cord discontinuity, significant reduction of cord
volume and a significant increase in cord signal intensity after treatment with
collagenase. There was a slight increase in flexor tendon signal intensity that
was not significant. These findings suggest that there may be local chemical
dissolution of the cord. Future studies may establish whether or not this will
have prognostic implications in terms of correction and recurrence following
collagenase injection.LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: IV.

Â© The Author(s) 2016.

DOI: 10.1177/1753193415626113 
PMID: 26768221  [PubMed - in process]
