

233. Can J Plast Surg. 2012 Winter;20(4):249-50.

Postoperative management of Dupuytren's disease with topical nitroglycerin.

Emelife PI(1), Kling RE, Wollstein R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Division of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery,
University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.

Dupuytren's contracture remains a significant clinical challenge due to
associated complications and a recurrence rate of up to 60%. Commonly, the
operated skin tends to rebuild scar in the area of surgery. Assuming local
ischemia as an etiological factor, two cases in which topical nitroglycerin was
used following surgical treatment of Dupuytren's disease are presented. In these 
patients, no raised scar formation developed during healing. At least six months 
after surgery, disease recurrence was not noted and the patients and surgeon
reported improved skin quality. In the present study, the use of topical
nitroglycerin, a local vasodilator, appeared to prevent recurrent scar formation,
possibly through prevention of local ischemia. Further study and follow-up is
necessary.

Publisher: La maladie de Dupuytren demeure un problème clinique important en
raison des complications connexes et d’un taux de récurrence pouvant atteindre 60
%. La peau opérée a souvent tendance à former de nouvelles cicatrices. Les
auteurs présentent deux cas pour lesquels ils ont utilisé de la nitroglycérine
topique après le traitement chirurgical de la maladie de Dupuytren, selon
l’hypothèse que l’ischémie locale représentait un facteur étiologique. Chez ces
patients, aucune cicatrice surélevée ne s’est formée. Au moins six mois après
l’opération, il n’y avait pas eu de récurrence de la maladie, et les patients et 
le chirurgien avaient fait état d’une meilleure qualité de la peau. Dans la
présente étude, le recours à de la nitroglycérine topique, un vasodilatateur
local, a semblé prévenir la formation de cicatrices récurrentes, peut-être en
prévenant une ischémie locale. D’autres études et un suivi s’imposent.

PMCID: PMC3513255
PMID: 24294020  [PubMed]
