

236. Clin Med Res. 2012 Aug;10(3):122-6. doi: 10.3121/cmr.2012.1063. Epub 2012 May 25.

Evaluation of a mitochondrial DNA mutation in maternally inherited and sporadic
cases of Dupuytren disease.

Anderson ER(1), Burmester JK, Caldwell MD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of General Surgery, Marshfield Clinic, Wisconsin 54449, USA.
anderson.eric@marshfieldclinic.org

OBJECTIVE: The purpose was to test the hypothesis that Dupuytren disease (DD) is 
associated with a previously reported mutation in mitochondrial DNA at position
2839.
METHODS: Two hundred sixty-nine cases of DD and an equal number of matched
controls were identified in Marshfield Clinic's Personalized Medicine Research
Project (PMRP). Clinical data used to describe the cohort were abstracted from
the electronic medical records of the population. Genetic analysis of all the
cases and controls was done using a custom synthesis TaqMan assay, while genetic 
analysis of sixteen of the above cases with a familial history of DD was
performed by mitochondrial DNA sequencing at position C2839A.
RESULTS: Cases and controls were evenly distributed with 167 (62%) men and 102
(38%) women. The majority, 264 (98%) of the cases and controls were white
non-Hispanic. Of the 269 cases, 16 were found to have a familial history of DD.
Two cases had a maternal history, eight a paternal history, five an affected
sibling, and one a paternal grandfather. All cases and controls were found to
have only the C allele at the site of the reported mitochondrial C2839A
polymorphism.
CONCLUSIONS: The previously reported mitochondrial mutation was not present in
our small, maternally inherited cohort or in the total population of 538 cases
and controls. This finding does not support the reported incidence of this
polymorphism in 90% of the affected population with a maternal inheritance, and
calls into question the role of the C2839A mitochondrial DNA polymorphism in
familial or sporadic cases of DD.

DOI: 10.3121/cmr.2012.1063 
PMCID: PMC3421422
PMID: 22634541  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
