

245. J Hand Surg Eur Vol. 2016 Jul 29. pii: 1753193416660045. [Epub ahead of print]

Functional outcome and complications following surgery for Dupuytren's disease: a
multi-centre cross-sectional study.

Rodrigues JN(1), Zhang W(2), Scammell BE(2), Chakrabarti I(3), Russell PG(4),
Fullilove S(5), Davidson D(6), Davis TR(2).

Author information: 
(1)Nuffield Department of Orthopaedics, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK
j.n.rodrigues@doctors.org.uk. (2)Division of Rheumatology, Orthopaedics and
Dermatology, University of Nottingham & Nottingham University Hospitals NHS
Trust, Nottingham, UK. (3)Rotherham General Hospital, Rotherham, UK.
(4)Pulvertaft Hand Centre, Royal Derby Hospital, Derby, UK. (5)Derriford
Hospital, Plymouth, UK. (6)St John's Hospital at Howden, Livingston, UK.

Variables associated with recurrent Dupuytren's disease, or a 'diathesis', have
been investigated, but those associated with functional outcome and complications
are less well studied. Outcomes 1 or 5 years after an aponeurotomy, fasciectomy
or dermofasciectomy were assessed by patient interview and examination at five UK
centres. A total of 432 procedures were studied. The reoperation rate did not
differ at 1 year (p = 0.396, Chi-square test with Monte Carlo simulation), but
was higher after aponeurotomy in the 5-year group (30%, versus 6% after
fasciectomy and 0% after dermofasciectomy, p = 0.003, Chi square test with Monte 
Carlo simulation). Loss of function (DASH>15) did not differ between procedures
at 5 years, even when reoperation and other variables were controlled. Diabetes, 
female gender and previous ipsilateral surgery were associated with poorer
function in logistic regression analysis. The variables associated with poor
function after treatments differ from diathesis variables. Aponeurotomy had lower
complication rates than fasciectomy and dermofasciectomy. This may counterbalance
the former's higher recurrence rate and explain why aponeurotomy demonstrated
similar long-term functional outcome compared with excisional surgery in this
study.LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: III.

© The Author(s) 2016.

DOI: 10.1177/1753193416660045 
PMID: 27474501  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]
