

249. Rheumatol Ther. 2016 Jun;3(1):43-51. Epub 2016 Feb 3.

Collagenase Treatment in Dupuytren Contractures: A Review of the Current State
Versus Future Needs.

Degreef I(1).

Author information: 
(1)Orthopedic Department, Hand Surgery, University Hospitals Leuven, Louvain,
Belgium. Ilse.degreef@uzleuven.be.

Dupuytren disease is highly prevalent and the finger contractures can be very
extensile, compromising the patients' hand function. To restore full function,
contractures have been addressed by cutting the causative strands for nearly
200Â years, ever since Baron Guillaume Dupuytren demonstrated his technique at the
beginning of the nineteenth century. Surgery can be minimal (fasciotomy) or quite
invasive (fasciectomy and even skin replacement). However, in the last decade
translational research has introduced the non-surgical technique of enzymatic
fasciotomy with collagenase injections. Now, finger contractures can be released 
with single injections on monthly intervals, to address one joint contracture at 
a time. However, in hands affected with Dupuytren contractures to the extent that
the patient calls for treatment, most often more than one joint is involved. In
surgical treatment options all contracted joints are addressed in a single
procedure. Nevertheless, extensile surgery withholds inherent risks of
complications and intense rehabilitation. Today, the minimally-invasive method
with enzymatic fasciotomy by collagenase injection has demonstrated reliable
outcomes with few morbidities and early recovery. However, single-site injection 
is todays' standard procedure and multiple joints are addressed in several
sessions with monthly intervals. This triggers a longer recovery and treatment
burden in severely affected hands even though surgery is avoided. Therefore,
further treatment modalities of collagenase use are explored. Adjustments in the 
treatment regimes' flexibility and collagenase injections addressing more than
one joint contracture simultaneously will improve the burden of multiple sessions
and, therefore, enzymatic fasciotomy may become the preferred method in more
extensile Dupuytren contractures. In this independent review, the challenge of
Dupuytren disease affecting a single versus multiple joints is presented. The
pros and cons of collagenase use are weighed, founded by the available scientific
background. The demands and options for collagenase in future treatment regimens 
for extensile Dupuytren contractures are discussed.

DOI: 10.1007/s40744-016-0027-1 
PMID: 27747514  [PubMed - in process]
