

251. Clin Invest Med. 2014 Aug 1;37(4):E262-7.

IGF2 expression and β-catenin levels are increased in Frozen Shoulder Syndrome.

Raykha CN, Crawford JD, Burry AF, Drosdowech DS, Faber KJ, Gan BS, O'Gorman
DB(1).

Author information: 
(1). dogorman@uwo.ca.

PURPOSE: Frozen Shoulder Syndrome is a fibrosis of the shoulder joint capsule
that is clinically associated with Dupuytren's disease, a fibrosis of the palmar 
fascia. Little is known about any commonalities in the pathophysiology of these
connective tissue fibroses. β-catenin, a protein that transactivates gene
expression, and levels of IGF2 mRNA, encoding insulin-like growth factor-II, are 
elevated in Dupuytren's disease. The aim of this study was to determine if
correlating changes in β-catenin levels and IGF2 expression are evident in Frozen
Shoulder Syndrome.
METHODS: Tissue from patients with Frozen Shoulder Syndrome and rotator cuff tear
were obtained during shoulder arthroscopies. Total protein extracts were prepared
from tissue aliquots and β-catenin immunoreactivity was assessed by Western
immunoblotting. In parallel, primary fibroblasts were derived from these tissues 
and assessed for IGF2 expression by quantitative PCR.
RESULTS: β-catenin levels were significantly increased in Frozen Shoulder
Syndrome relative to rotator cuff tear when assessed by Western immunoblotting
analyses. IGF2 mRNA levels were significantly increased in primary fibroblasts
derived from frozen shoulder syndrome tissues relative to fibroblasts derived
from rotator cuff tissues.
CONCLUSIONS: As in Dupuytren's disease, β-catenin levels and IGF2 expression are 
elevated in Frozen Shoulder Syndrome. These findings support the hypothesis that 
these connective tissue fibroses share a common pathophysiology.


PMID: 25090267  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
