

259. J Hand Surg Eur Vol. 2016 Jul;41(6):600-8. doi: 10.1177/1753193415601353. Epub
2015 Sep 9.

Skin involvement in Dupuytren's disease.

Wade R(1), Igali L(2), Figus A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Norfolk and Norwich
University Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, Norwich, UK. (2)Norfolk and Waveney
Cellular Pathology Network, Cotman Centre, Norfolk and Norwich University
Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, Norwich, UK. (3)Department of Plastic and
Reconstructive Surgery, Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital NHS Foundation
Trust, Norwich, UK Norwich Medical School, Faculty of Medicine and Health
Sciences, University of East Anglia, Norwich, UK andrea.figus@nnuh.nhs.uk.

Whether the palmar skin has a role in the development, propagation or recurrence 
of Dupuytren's disease remains unclear. Clinical assessment for skin involvement 
is difficult and its correlation with histology uncertain. We prospectively
biopsied the palmar skin of consecutive patients undergoing single digit
fasciectomy (for primary Dupuytren's disease without clinically involved skin)
and dermofasciectomy (for clinically involved skin or recurrence) in order to
investigate this relationship. We found dermal fibromatosis in 22 of 44 patients 
(50%) undergoing fasciectomy and 41 of 59 patients (70%) undergoing
dermofasciectomy. Dermal fibromatosis appeared to be associated with greater
preoperative angular deformity, presence of palmar nodules and occupations
involving manual labour. Dermal fibromatosis exists in the absence of clinical
features of skin involvement and we hypothesize that the skin may have a greater 
role in the development and propagation of Dupuytren's disease than previously
thought.LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: III.

Â© The Author(s) 2015.

DOI: 10.1177/1753193415601353 
PMID: 26353945  [PubMed - in process]
