

261. Int J Low Extrem Wounds. 2013 Dec;12(4):297-300. doi: 10.1177/1534734613502044.
Epub 2013 Nov 9.

Squamous cell carcinoma and ledderhose disease: a case report.

Motolese A(1), Mola F, Cherubino M, Giaccone M, Pellegatta I, Valdatta L.

Author information: 
(1)1University of Insubria, Varese, Italy.

Ledderhose disease is disorder of the plantar aponeurosis. This disease is not so
common and can be tackled with a surgical or conservative approach. A case of a
73-year-old man came to our attention who had a 26-year history of painless
bilateral plantar nodules coalescing into an indurated mass. An ulcerative nodule
had been noted in the last 16 months on the right foot, in the absence of trauma,
not responsive to conservative treatment, so we decided to perform a biopsy. The 
histopatologic examination showed squamous cell carcinoma, with warty,
well-differentiated, low-grade malignancy. Surgical treatment was suggested, so, 
in pneumoischemia, we made a surgical incision including the skin lesion. Then we
proceeded to sculpture the anterolateral thigh fasciacutaneous flap to obtain
adequate soft tissue coverage. The tumor was completely removed. Current
reconstructive possibilities comprise a good anatomofunctional recovery even in
the case of large demolition requests for the therapy of advanced cases of the
disease described in this article. Correlation between Ledderhose disease and the
formation of malignant tumors has not been made as yet, but perhaps an element
that could unite these pathologies can be researched in the lively cell
proliferation that characterizes both. It would be interesting to analyze the
biological substrate, as well as the systemic and local levels, in patients where
both diseases are manifested.

DOI: 10.1177/1534734613502044 
PMID: 24214953  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
