

263. Fibrogenesis Tissue Repair. 2016 Jun 29;9:9. doi: 10.1186/s13069-016-0046-0.
eCollection 2016.

Matrix and cell phenotype differences in Dupuytren's disease.

van Beuge MM(1), Ten Dam EJ(2), Werker PM(3), Bank RA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology & Medical Biology, University Medical Center
Groningen, University of Groningen, Hanzeplein 1, 9713 GZ Groningen, The
Netherlands. (2)Department of Pathology & Medical Biology, University Medical
Center Groningen, University of Groningen, Hanzeplein 1, 9713 GZ Groningen, The
Netherlands ; Department of Plastic Surgery, Department of Pathology & Medical
Biology, University Medical Center Groningen, University of Groningen, Hanzeplein
1, 9713 GZ Groningen, The Netherlands. (3)Department of Plastic Surgery,
Department of Pathology & Medical Biology, University Medical Center Groningen,
University of Groningen, Hanzeplein 1, 9713 GZ Groningen, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Dupuytren's disease is a fibroproliferative disease of the hand and
fingers, which usually manifests as two different phenotypes within the same
patient. The disease first causes a nodule in the palm of the hand, while later, 
a cord develops, causing contracture of the fingers.
RESULTS: We set out to characterize the two phenotypes by comparing matched cord 
and nodule tissue from ten Dupuytren's patients. We found that nodule tissue
contained more proliferating cells, CD68-positive macrophages and α-smooth muscle
actin (α-SMA)-positive myofibroblastic cells. qPCR analysis showed an increased
expression of COL1A1, COL1A2, COL5A1, and COL6A1 in nodule tissue compared to
cord tissue. Immunohistochemistry showed less deposition of collagen type I in
nodules, although they contained more fibronectin, collagen type V, and
procollagen 1. Lower collagen levels in nodule were confirmed by HPLC
measurements of the Hyp/Pro ratio. PCOLCE2, an activator of BMP1, the main enzyme
cleaving the C-terminal pro-peptide from procollagen, was also reduced in nodule.
Cord tissue not only contained more collagen I, but also higher levels of
hydroxylysylpyridinoline and lysylpyridinoline residues per triple helix,
indicating more crosslinks.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results clearly show that in Dupuytren's disease, the nodule is 
the active disease unit, although it does not have the highest collagen protein
levels. The difference in collagen type I deposition compared to mRNA levels and 
procollagen 1 levels may be connected to a decrease in procollagen processing.

DOI: 10.1186/s13069-016-0046-0 
PMCID: PMC4928329
PMID: 27366208  [PubMed]
