

264. Eplasty. 2014 Mar 27;14:e13. eCollection 2014.

Treatment of dupuytren disease with injectable collagenase in a veteran
population: a case series at the department of veterans affairs new jersey health
care system.

Sood A(1), Therattil PJ(1), Paik AM(1), Simpson MF(2), Lee ES(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Department of Surgery, New
Jersey Medical School, Rutgers University, Newark, NJ. (2)Department of Veterans 
Affairs New Jersey Health Care System, East Orange, NJ. (3)Division of Plastic
and Reconstructive Surgery, Department of Surgery, New Jersey Medical School,
Rutgers University, Newark, NJ ; Department of Veterans Affairs New Jersey Health
Care System, East Orange, NJ.

INTRODUCTION: Clinical trials seeking to establish long-term efficacy of
injectable collagenase clostridium histolyticum for treatment of Dupuytren
disease are ongoing. In this quality improvement study, the efficacy, recurrence 
rate, and complications of collagenase injection for Dupuytren disease are
reviewed in a population of Veteran patients.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A retrospective chart review was performed for patients
who underwent treatment with injectable collagenase for Dupuytren disease from
2010 to 2013 at our regional Department of Veterans Affairs medical center. Data 
points of interest included the degree of joint contracture preoperatively,
immediately after treatment, and at follow-up, complications, and patient
satisfaction.
RESULTS: Sixteen patients received 27 injections (18 metacarpophalangeal and 9
proximal interphalangeal injections). The mean time of follow-up was 12.3 months.
There was a 50% or greater reduction of the original extension deficit in 74.1%
(n = 27) of the joints treated. Metacarpophalangeal joint recurrence was "high"
(≥50°) in 0% (n = 18) of joints, and "low" (5°-50°) in 33.3% (n = 18) of joints
with a mean follow-up of 12 months. Proximal interphalangeal joint recurrence was
"high" (≥40°) in 18.5% (n = 9) of joints and "low" (5°-40°) in 7.4% (n = 9) of
joints with a mean follow-up of 12.9 months. Minor complications were experienced
in 93.8% (n = 16) of patients who underwent collagenase injection and included
ecchymosis, skin laceration, injection-site swelling, injection-site hemorrhage, 
tenderness, and pruritus. Seventy-five percent (n = 12) of patients in our study 
reported they would undergo treatment with collagenase again.
CONCLUSIONS: The case series presented demonstrates that injectable collagenase
clostridium histolyticum produced a clinical success rate of 74.1% and is a safe 
method to treat Dupuytren disease.


PMCID: PMC3977593
PMID: 24741384  [PubMed]
