

266. BMC Musculoskelet Disord. 2016 Aug 15;17(1):345. doi: 10.1186/s12891-016-1200-y.

Systematic review of non-surgical treatments for early dupuytren's disease.

Ball C(1), Izadi D(2), Verjee LS(2), Chan J(2), Nanchahal J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Kennedy Institute of Rheumatology, University of Oxford, Roosevelt Drive,
Headington, Oxford, OX3 7FY, UK. cathy.ball@kennedy.ox.ac.uk. (2)Kennedy
Institute of Rheumatology, University of Oxford, Roosevelt Drive, Headington,
Oxford, OX3 7FY, UK.

BACKGROUND: Dupuytren's disease is a common fibrotic disorder of the palm
characterized by the development of progressive flexion deformities in the
digits, leading to significant functional impairment. Surgical excision remains
the most common treatment. However, this is only indicated in patients with
established contractures rather than those with early disease. Early disease is
generally characterized by the presence of palmar nodules with limited or no
contracture of the fingers. The ideal treatment would be directed at patients
with early progressive disease to prevent future deterioration. Various
non-surgical treatment modalities have been described but there is currently no
systematic assessment of the role and efficacy of these treatments in patients
with early disease.
METHODS: Using a PICOS analysis we reviewed publications of studies of patients
with early disease who had received physical therapies, pharmacological
treatment, or radiotherapy. Following PRISMA guidelines titles and abstract were 
screened using predefined criteria to identify those reporting outcomes
specifically relating to the treatment of early disease. In the absence of a
definition of early disease studies were included if early DD was described
clinically, with digital contractures not exceeding 30°, Tubiana grades N to 1,
and which reported identifiable data. Studies were excluded if data for early DD 
patients could not be extracted for analysis.
RESULTS: In this systematic review, 26 studies were identified and analyzed to
evaluate the effect of pharmacological therapy (n = 11), physical therapy (n = 5)
and radiotherapy (n = 10) on early Dupuytren's disease. The studies comprised 20 
case series, 1 cohort study with the remainder reporting case studies. All
publications were graded level of evidence 4 or 5 assessed using the Oxford
Centre for Evidence Based Medicine grading. Narrative descriptions of the data
are presented.
CONCLUSIONS: Physical therapies were the most robustly assessed, using objective 
measures but the studies were under powered, providing insufficient evidence of
efficacy. Intralesional steroid injection and radiotherapy appeared to lead to
softening of nodules and to retard disease progression but lacked rigorous
evaluation and studies were poorly designed. There is an urgent need for
adequately powered double blinded randomized trials for this common disorder
which affects 4 % of the population.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: The protocol was registered ( CRD42015008986 16 November
2015) with the PROSPERO international prospective register of systematic reviews.

DOI: 10.1186/s12891-016-1200-y 
PMCID: PMC4986253
PMID: 27526686  [PubMed - in process]
