

271. Joint Bone Spine. 2012 Jul;79(4):393-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jbspin.2011.07.005. Epub
2011 Oct 1.

Epidemiogenetic study of French families with Paget's disease of bone.

Michou L(1), Collet C, Morissette J, Audran M, Thomas T, Gagnon E, Launay JM,
Laplanche JL, Brown JP, Orcel P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Laval University, and Division of Rheumatology,
CHUQ-CHUL, Quebec City, Quebec, Canada. laetitia.michou@crchul.ulaval.ca

OBJECTIVE: To search for association with environmental factors and to determine 
SQSTM1/p62 mutations prevalence in French families with Paget's disease of bone
(PDB).
METHODS: Unrelated patients with a confirmed diagnosis of PDB were recruited in
three Rheumatology departments and informed consent obtained. First- and
second-degree relatives of each index case had a physical examination, blood
taken for DNA extraction and biochemical measurements, and a whole-body bone
scan. Exons 7 and 8 and exon-intron boundaries of SQSTM1/p62 (p62) gene were
PCR-amplified before sequencing. Haplotype carriers of the p62(P392L) mutation
were determined. Comparisons between PDB patients and healthy relatives were
performed.
RESULTS: We investigated 18 families consisting of 83 individuals: 20 patients
with known PDB, three relatives with newly-diagnosed PDB and 60 healthy
relatives. Index cases and/or relatives with Dupuytren's disease were found in
eight (44.4%) out of the 18 families. Forty-three percent of PDB patients were
former or current tobacco users versus 18% of healthy relatives (P=0.02; OR=3.37 
(1.04-11.09)). Five index cases (27.8%) were carriers of SQSTM1/p62 mutations:
three p62(P392L) mutations, one p62(P392L/A390X) double mutation and one
p62(A390X) mutation. The p62(P392L) mutation was carried by haplotype 2 in all
four index cases.
CONCLUSION: Accurate phenotypic assessment of PDB patients' relatives allowed for
diagnosing PDB in three asymptomatic relatives. There was evidence for an
aggregation of Dupuytren's disease in PDB families (not associated with
SQSTM1/p62 mutation), and for an association between PDB and tobacco use. Half of
PDB familial forms carried a SQSTM1/p62 mutation, p62(P392L) mutation being the
most frequent.

Copyright © 2011 Société française de rhumatologie. Published by Elsevier SAS.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbspin.2011.07.005 
PMID: 21962384  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
