

272. J Hand Surg Eur Vol. 2014 Jun;39(5):482-90. doi: 10.1177/1753193413511944. Epub
2013 Dec 4.

The anatomy and function of Cleland's ligaments.

Zwanenburg RL(1), Werker PM(2), McGrouther DA(3).

Author information: 
(1)University Medical Center Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands
rinze_zwanenburg@hotmail.com. (2)University Medical Center Groningen, Groningen, 
The Netherlands. (3)University of Manchester, Manchester, UK.

The cutaneous ligaments of the digits have been recognized by anatomists for
several centuries, but the best known description is that of John Cleland.
Subsequent varying descriptions of their morphology have resulted in the surgical
community having an imprecise view of their structure and dynamic function. We
micro-dissected 24 fresh frozen fingers to analyze the individual components of
Cleland's ligamentous system. Arising from the proximal interphalangeal (PIP)
joint, proximal, and sometimes middle phalanx, we found strong ligaments that ran
proximally (PIP-P) and distally (PIP-D). On each side of each finger there was a 
PIP-P ligament present, which passed obliquely from the lateral side of the
proximal and sometimes middle phalanx towards its insertion into the skin at the 
level of the proximal phalanx. The distal (PIP-D) ligaments were found to pass
obliquely distally on the radial and ulnar aspects of the digit towards cutaneous
insertions around the middle phalanx. A similar arrangement exists more distally 
with fibres originating from the DIP joint and middle phalanx (the DIP-P pass
obliquely proximally, and the DIP-D, distally). Each individual PIP ligament
consisted of three different layers originating from fibres overlying the flexor 
tendon sheath, periosteum or joint capsule, and extensor expansion. Ligaments
arising at the DIP joint had two layers equivalent to the anterior two layers of 
the proximal ligaments. Cleland's ligaments act as skin anchors maintaining the
skin in a fixed relationship to the underlying skeleton during motion and
functional tasks. They also prevent the skin from 'bagging', protect the
neurovascular bundle, and create a gliding path for the lateral slips of the
extensor tendon.

Â© The Author(s) 2013.

DOI: 10.1177/1753193413511944 
PMID: 24305724  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
