

276. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol. 2016 Oct;30(10):1694-1699. doi: 10.1111/jdv.13773. 
Epub 2016 Jul 18.

To remember: Radiotherapy - a successful treatment for early Dupuytren's disease.

Eberlein B(1), Biedermann T(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology and Allergy Biederstein, Technische Universität
München, Munich, Germany. bernadette.eberlein@tum.de. (2)Department of
Dermatology and Allergy Biederstein, Technische Universität München, Munich,
Germany.

Dupuytren's disease (DD) is a common fibroproliferative condition of the hand
which tends to cause progressive digital flexion contracture. Therapeutic
strategies to treat the disease include radiotherapy, injections of collagenase
clostridium histolyticum, needle fasciotomy and extended surgical intervention
dependent on involvement and duration of the disease. We have reviewed the
literature with the aim to assess the conditions and effects of radiotherapy in
DD. In early stages of the disease, radiotherapy resulted in regression of
symptoms/a lack of progression found on average in 40% (range 10-85%)/81% (range 
50-100%) of the patients with recurrence rates of only 12-31% after long-term
follow-up (>4 years). These results proved to be significantly better than in the
untreated patients with natural course of the disease (about 50% progression
after a follow-up of 5-6 years). Long-term side-effects (skin dryness) are
observed on average in one quarter of the patients, but are well tolerated. Local
occurrence of malignancies has not been reported yet. Due to severe functional
impairment leading to individual suffering and the high economic burden,
treatment of DD in early stages is necessary and radiation therapy represents an 
effective, safe and economic treatment option.

© 2016 European Academy of Dermatology and Venereology.

DOI: 10.1111/jdv.13773 
PMID: 27428598  [PubMed - in process]
