

28. Mol Med Rep. 2015 Jul;12(1):482-8. doi: 10.3892/mmr.2015.3458. Epub 2015 Mar 9.

Identification and function analysis of contrary genes in Dupuytren's
contracture.

Ji X(1), Tian F(1), Tian L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hand and Foot Surgery, Shengjing Hospital, China Medical
University, Shenyang, Liaoning 110003, P.R. China.

The present study aimed to analyze the expression of genes involved in
Dupuytren's contracture (DC), using bioinformatic methods. The profile of
GSE21221 was downloaded from the gene expression ominibus, which included six
samples, derived from fibroblasts and six healthy control samples, derived from
carpal-tunnel fibroblasts. A Distributed Intrusion Detection System was used in
order to identify differentially expressed genes. The term contrary genes is
proposed. Contrary genes were the genes that exhibited opposite expression
patterns in the positive and negative groups, and likely exhibited opposite
functions. These were identified using Coexpress software. Gene ontology (GO)
function analysis was conducted for the contrary genes. A network of GO terms was
constructed using the reduce and visualize gene ontology database. Significantly 
expressed genes (801) and contrary genes (98) were screened. A significant
association was observed between Chitinase-3-like protein 1 and ten genes in the 
positive gene set. Positive regulation of transcription and the activation of
nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB)-inducing kinase activity exhibited the highest degree
values in the network of GO terms. In the present study, the expression of genes 
involved in the development of DC was analyzed, and the concept of contrary genes
proposed. The genes identified in the present study are involved in the positive 
regulation of transcription and activation of NF-κB-inducing kinase activity. The
contrary genes and GO terms identified in the present study may potentially be
used for DC diagnosis and treatment.

DOI: 10.3892/mmr.2015.3458 
PMID: 25760233  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
