

280. Eur Orthop Traumatol. 2012 Mar;3(1):31-41. Epub 2012 Mar 6.

Current trends in the surgical management of Dupuytren's disease in Europe: an
analysis of patient charts.

Bainbridge C, Dahlin LB, Szczypa PP, Cappelleri JC, Guérin D, Gerber RA.

INTRODUCTION: Dupuytren's disease (DD) causes progressive digital flexion
contracture and is more common in men of European descent. METHODS: Orthopaedic
and plastic surgeons in 12 European countries (the Czech Republic, Denmark,
Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Italy, The Netherlands, Poland, Spain, Sweden 
and the UK) with >3 and <30 years experience reviewed the medical charts of five 
consecutive patients they had treated surgically for DD in 2008. Descriptive
statistics are reported. RESULTS: In total, 3,357 patient charts were reviewed.
Mean (standard deviation) patient age was 61.9 (10.2) years; 81% were men. At the
time of the procedure, 11% of patients were at Tubiana stage Ia (0-20° total
flexion); 30%, stage Ib (21-45°); 34%, stage II (46-90°); 17%, stage III
(91-135°); and 5%, stage IV (>135°). Percutaneous needle fasciotomy was performed
in 10%, fasciotomy in 13%, fasciectomy in 69% and dermofasciectomy (DF) in 6% of 
patients. After surgery, fingers improved a mean of 1.9 Tubiana stages, and 54%
of patients had no nodules or contracture. The rate of reported complications
during the procedure was 4% overall (11% in patients undergoing DF). The most
common postoperative complications reported were haematoma (8%), wound healing
complications (6%) and pain (6%). No postoperative complications were reported in
77% of patients. CONCLUSIONS: In this European study of more than 3,000 patients 
with DD, most patients were diagnosed at Tubiana stage I or II, the majority
received fasciectomy and more than half had no nodules or contracture remaining
after surgery. ELECTRONIC SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIAL: The online version of this
article (doi:10.1007/s12570-012-0092-z) contains supplementary material, which is
available to authorized users.

DOI: 10.1007/s12570-012-0092-z 
PMCID: PMC3338000
PMID: 22611457  [PubMed]
