

282. Plast Reconstr Surg. 2012 Nov;130(5 Suppl 2):256S-69S. doi:
10.1097/PRS.0b013e318265a5cf.

Acellular dermal matrices in hand reconstruction.

Ellis CV(1), Kulber DA.

Author information: 
(1)Keck School of Medicine of the University of Southern California, Cedars Sinai
Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA 90048, USA.

Erratum in
    Plast Reconstr Surg. 2012 Dec;130(6):1399.

Comment in
    Plast Reconstr Surg. 2013 Oct;132(4):677e-679e.
    Plast Reconstr Surg. 2013 Oct;132(4):679e-680e.

BACKGROUND: The goal of this article is to review the current literature on the
use of acellular dermal matrix in forearm, wrist, and hand reconstruction.
METHODS: A comprehensive literature search was performed using the Cochrane
Database of Systematic Reviews, MEDLINE, PubMed, and Web of Knowledge. Articles
were categorized as acellular dermal matrix used in soft-tissue repair and in
ligament reconstruction. Search terms included "acellular dermal matrix,"
"biologic dressing," "skin replacement," "dermal allograft," "AlloDerm,"
"FlexHD," "Permacol," and "Strattice." These were all cross-referenced with
"forearm," "wrist," and "hand." Data extraction focused on indications, surgical 
techniques, clinical outcomes, and complications. Exclusion criteria included
regeneration templates, neonatal foreskin, and review articles.
RESULTS: More than 100 articles published between 1994 and 2011 were identified. 
Upon final review, five prospective case-control studies, three retrospective
case-control studies, four case reports, one cross-sectional cohort, one
prospective consecutive series, and one study type unknown were evaluated. Matrix
was most commonly used in burn reconstruction. It has also been used in ligament 
and joint reconstruction for first carpometacarpal arthritis. One article
illustrated the use of porcine matrix in basal joint arthritis, a practice that
was abruptly terminated because of a concern over increased infections.
CONCLUSIONS: The clinical indications for acellular dermal matrix have increased 
throughout the last 15 years. Hand surgeons have been cautious but diligent in
developing alternative treatment options in hand reconstruction, with a focused
effort to reduce donor-site morbidity. Although acellular dermal matrices
continue to find innovative uses to solve upper extremity surgical problems, more
comparative prospective trials are needed.

DOI: 10.1097/PRS.0b013e318265a5cf 
PMID: 23096981  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
