

285. Eur Orthop Traumatol. 2012 Mar;3(1):25-30. Epub 2012 Mar 2.

Current trends in the surgical management of Dupuytren's disease in Europe: the
surgeon's perspective.

Dahlin LB, Bainbridge C, Szczypa PP, Cappelleri JC, Guérin D, Gerber RA.

INTRODUCTION: Dupuytren's disease (DD), commonly affecting European men, is
generally treated with surgery. METHODS: Orthopaedic and plastic surgeons who had
been practicing for >3 and <30 years and operated on ≥5 patients with DD between 
September and December 2008 were surveyed in 12 European countries (Czech
Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Italy, The Netherlands,
Poland, Spain, Sweden and UK). The survey assessed procedures performed, factors 
influencing choice of procedure, use of physical therapy and recurrence.
Descriptive statistics are reported. RESULTS: A total of 687 surgeons
participated, including 579 orthopaedic and 108 plastic surgeons; 383 (56%) were 
hand surgeons. About 37% of surgeons performed percutaneous needle fasciotomy
(PNF), 77% fasciotomy, 95% fasciectomy and 40% dermofasciectomy (DF). Surgeons'
choice of procedure was influenced by patient preferences, age, degree of
contracture and recurrent disease. The percentage of surgeons prescribing
physical therapy and the mean (standard deviation [SD]) duration of therapy
increased with procedure complexity: PNF = 82%, 5.2 (3.9) weeks;
fasciotomy = 94%, 5.3 (3.6); fasciectomy = 97%, 6.7 (5.1); and DF = 99%, 8.5
(6.4). Using survey responses, mean (SD) estimated recurrence rates decreased and
estimated time to recurrence increased with procedure complexity-PNF = 44% (27%),
17 (15) months; fasciotomy = 30% (24%), 20 (18); fasciectomy = 20% (17%), 29
(23); and DF = 20% (19%), 33 (27). CONCLUSIONS: Across Europe, patient and
surgical factors influence the intention to use a surgical procedure. Fasciectomy
was the most commonly performed procedure type and was associated with lower
recurrence than PNF or fasciotomy. ELECTRONIC SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIAL: The online 
version of this article (doi:10.1007/s12570-012-0091-0) contains supplementary
material, which is available to authorized users.

DOI: 10.1007/s12570-012-0091-0 
PMCID: PMC3337993
PMID: 22611456  [PubMed]
