

29. Arthritis Res Ther. 2015 May 28;17:144. doi: 10.1186/s13075-015-0661-y.

Laminin-rich blood vessels display activated growth factor signaling and act as
the proliferation centers in Dupuytren's contracture.

Viil J(1), Maasalu K(2,)(3), Mäemets-Allas K(4), Tamming L(5), Lõhmussaar K(6),
Tooming M(7), Ingerpuu S(8), Märtson A(9,)(10), Jaks V(11,)(12).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Molecular and Cell Biology, University of Tartu, Riia 23, 51010, 
Tartu, Estonia. janeli.viil@ut.ee. (2)Department of Traumatology and Orthopedics,
Tartu University Hospital, Puusepa 8, 51014, Tartu, Estonia.
katre.maasalu@kliinikum.ee. (3)Clinic of Traumatology and Orthopedics, Tartu
University Hospital, Puusepa 8, 51014, Tartu, Estonia.
katre.maasalu@kliinikum.ee. (4)Institute of Molecular and Cell Biology,
University of Tartu, Riia 23, 51010, Tartu, Estonia. kristina902@gmail.com.
(5)Institute of Molecular and Cell Biology, University of Tartu, Riia 23, 51010, 
Tartu, Estonia. liis.tamming@gmail.com. (6)Institute of Molecular and Cell
Biology, University of Tartu, Riia 23, 51010, Tartu, Estonia.
kadil6hmussaar@gmail.com. (7)Institute of Molecular and Cell Biology, University 
of Tartu, Riia 23, 51010, Tartu, Estonia. mikktooming@gmail.com. (8)Institute of 
Molecular and Cell Biology, University of Tartu, Riia 23, 51010, Tartu, Estonia. 
suling@ebc.ee. (9)Department of Traumatology and Orthopedics, Tartu University
Hospital, Puusepa 8, 51014, Tartu, Estonia. aare.martson@kliinikum.ee. (10)Clinic
of Traumatology and Orthopedics, Tartu University Hospital, Puusepa 8, 51014,
Tartu, Estonia. aare.martson@kliinikum.ee. (11)Institute of Molecular and Cell
Biology, University of Tartu, Riia 23, 51010, Tartu, Estonia. viljar.jaks@ut.ee. 
(12)Department of Biosciences and Nutrition, Karolinska Institutet, Hälsovägen 7,
141 83, Huddinge, Sweden. viljar.jaks@ut.ee.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Rheumatol. 2015 Aug;11(8):444.

INTRODUCTION: Dupuytren's contracture (DC) is a chronic fibroproliferative
disease of the hand, which is characterized by uncontrolled proliferation of
atypical myofibroblasts at the cellular level. We hypothesized that specific
areas of the DC tissue are sustaining the cell proliferation and studied the
potential molecular determinants that might contribute to the formation of such
niches.
METHODS: We studied the expression pattern of cell proliferation marker Ki67,
phosphorylated AKT (Ak mouse strain thymoma) kinase, DC-associated growth factors
(connective tissue growth factor (CTGF), basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF),
insulin-like growth factor 2 (IGF-2)) and extracellular matrix components
(laminins, fibronectin, collagen IV) in DC tissue and normal palmar fascia using 
immunofluorescence microscopy and quantitative real-time polymerase chain
reaction (qPCR).
RESULTS: We found that proliferative cells in the DC nodules were concentrated in
the immediate vicinity of small blood vessels and localized predominantly in the 
myofibroblast layer. Correspondingly, the DC-associated blood vessels contained
increased levels of phosphorylated AKT, a hallmark of activated growth factor
signaling. When studying the expression of potential activators of AKT signaling 
we found that the expression of bFGF was confined to the endothelium of the small
blood vessels, IGF-2 was present uniformly in the DC tissue and CTGF was
expressed in the DC-associated sweat gland acini. In addition, the blood vessels 
in DC nodules contained increased amounts of laminins 511 and 521, which have
been previously shown to promote the proliferation and stem cell properties of
different cell types.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on our findings, we propose that in the DC-associated small
blood vessels the presence of growth factors in combination with favorable
extracellular matrix composition provide a supportive environment for sustained
proliferation of myofibroblasts and thus the blood vessels play an important role
in DC pathogenesis.

DOI: 10.1186/s13075-015-0661-y 
PMCID: PMC4475288
PMID: 26018562  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
