

294. Surg Innov. 2016 Jul 22. pii: 1553350616660630. [Epub ahead of print]

Collagenase From Vibrio alginolyticus Cultures: Experimental Study and Clinical
Perspectives.

Bassetto F(1), Maschio N(1), Abatangelo G(1), Zavan B(1), Scarpa C(2), Vindigni
V(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Padua, Padua, Italy. (2)University of Padua, Padua, Italy
carlotsc@tin.it.

Purpose The purpose of this study is to examine the activity of collagenase from 
cultures of Vibrio alginolyticus as in vitro as in biological samples and to
evaluate clinical perspectives of this product about the treatment of
fibroproliferative diseases like Dupuytren's contracture. Methods The
experimental part of the study has been divided in 2 stages. In the first stage, 
the collagenase has been produced in laboratory, assessing its purity, verifying 
the in vitro degradation of collagen by the enzyme and measuring the size of the 
fragments; in the second part, an experimental injection into samples of fibrous 
cord typical of Dupuytren's disease has been performed in vitro. For the
injection we used only collagenase, or collagenase after having subjected them to
2 types of mechanical stress or a collagenase combined with ethylenediamine
tetra-acetic acid. Considering that the human samples have been treated in vitro,
our institution does not require a specific informed consent. Results It appeared
evident that the collagenase obtained from Vibrio alginolyticus (nonpathogenic
bacterium) is highly pure (>98%) and does not contain nonspecific protease. The
collagenase from Vibrio alginolyticus therefore has an excellent degradative
capacity against the collagen and this activity takes on a dose- and
time-dependent behavior. The collagenase from Vibrio alginolyticus does not act
negatively on cell survival and collagen peptides obtained may provide a better
proliferative stimulus compared to controls. Conclusions The collagenase from
Vibrio alginolyticus, given its obvious ability in vitro and biological samples, 
could be an option in the nonsurgical treatment of Dupuytren's disease. Level of 
evidence Level III, therapeutic.

Â© The Author(s) 2016.

DOI: 10.1177/1553350616660630 
PMID: 27448558  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]
