

295. Plast Reconstr Surg. 2015 Nov;136(5):981-9. doi: 10.1097/PRS.0000000000001698.

The Collagenase of the Bacterium Clostridium histolyticum for the Treatment of
Capsular Fibrosis after Silicone Implants.

Fischer S(1), Hirsch T, Diehm Y, Kiefer J, Bueno EM, Kueckelhaus M, Kremer T,
Hirche C, Kneser U, Pomahac B.

Author information: 
(1)Boston, Mass.; and Ludwigshafen and Bochum, Germany From the Department of
Surgery, Division of Plastic Surgery, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard
Medical School; the Department of Hand-, Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Burn
Trauma Center, BG Trauma Center Ludwigshafen, University of Heidelberg; and the
Department of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Burn Centre, BG University
Hospital Bergmannsheil, Ruhr University Bochum.

BACKGROUND: The main part of the fibrotic capsule in capsular contracture is
collagen. The collagenase of the bacterium Clostridium histolyticum is U.S. Food 
and Drug Administration approved for the treatment of Dupuytren contracture and
might be capable of dissolving the fibrotic capsule surrounding silicone
implants.
METHODS: One hundred twenty days after insertion of miniature silicone implants
the authors performed in vitro studies (n = 14) for optimum dosage-finding and
subsequent in vivo studies (n = 36) to evaluate application method and
efficiency. Data analysis involved histologic measurements of capsule thickness
and collagen density; 7-T magnetic resonance imaging-based in vivo imaging; and
polymerase chain reaction analysis of inflammatory, profibrotic, and antifibrotic
markers.
RESULTS: Compared with the control group, each dosage showed significantly
thinner capsules after in vitro incubation. Skin digestion occurred in 0, 1 (7
percent), and 11 cases (80 percent) after incubation with 0.3, 0.9, and 1.8
mg/ml, respectively. In vivo application showed a dosage-dependent decrease in
capsule formation, which was more prominent in lower capsule parts, seen by
magnetic resonance imaging. In vivo skin perforation was seen in two (17 percent)
and six cases (50 percent) after injection of 0.3 mg/ml and 0.9 mg/ml,
respectively. Profibrotic and inflammatory markers were significantly
up-regulated 10 days after collagenase injection.
CONCLUSIONS: The collagenase of C. histolyticum is capable of dissolving the
fibrotic capsule surrounding silicone implants. Skin perforation occurred most
likely because of mechanical irritation after complete digestion of the capsule. 
Further studies are required to pave the way for safe clinical application.

DOI: 10.1097/PRS.0000000000001698 
PMID: 26171751  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
