

297. J Hand Surg Eur Vol. 2016 Sep 5. pii: 1753193416665299. [Epub ahead of print]

Remembered preoperative Quick disabilities of the arm, shoulder and hand
(QuickDASH) scores.

Wormdal AH(1), Tallaksen SH(1), Hagen Ø(2), Foss OE(3), Finsen V(4).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Norwegian University of Science and Technology,
Trondheim, Norway. (2)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Martina Hansen's
Hospital, Sandvika, Norway. (3)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, St.Olav's
University Hospital, Trondheim, Norway. (4)Faculty of Medicine, Norwegian
University of Science and Technology, Trondheim, Norway Department of Orthopaedic
Surgery, St.Olav's University Hospital, Trondheim, Norway vilh.finsen@ntnu.no.

The Quick disabilities of the arm, shoulder and hand (QuickDASH) patient-reported
outcome measure is frequently used to assess disabilities and symptoms of the
upper extremity. This study compares real preoperative QuickDASH scores and
remembered preoperative QuickDASH scores. Remembered preoperative QuickDASH
scores were obtained 45 months (39-67) after surgery. Patient material consisted 
of 160 patients operated for Dupuytren's contracture, carpal tunnel syndrome,
thumb basal joint arthrosis, and shoulder pain. All patients had completed
QuickDASH questionnaires before surgery. Paired T-tests, linear mixed models, and
limits of agreement were used for analyses. There was a significant difference
between remembered and real preoperative scores (mean 7.6, SD 15.6; SEM 1.2).
Neither diagnosis, age, gender, nor time between surgery and review influenced
the difference significantly. A linear mixed model was constructed to investigate
the ability to retrospectively predict preoperative QuickDASH scores. Remembered 
preoperative QuickDASH cannot be used in individual patients because of the high 
inaccuracy.LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: III.

© The Author(s) 2016.

DOI: 10.1177/1753193416665299 
PMID: 27601465  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]
