

299. Biologics. 2015 Sep 29;9:107-16. doi: 10.2147/BTT.S65619. eCollection 2015.

Role of collagenase clostridium histolyticum in Peyronie's disease.

Peak TC(1), Mitchell GC(2), Yafi FA(2), Hellstrom WJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology, Tulane University School of Medicine, New Orleans, LA, 
USA. (2)Section of Andrology, Department of Urology, Tulane University School of 
Medicine, New Orleans, LA, USA.

Peyronie's disease is a localized connective tissue disease characterized by an
active, inflammatory phase and a stable, quiescent phase, with the eventual
development of collagenous plaques within the tunica albuginea of the penis. Risk
factors primarily associated with Peyronie's disease include Dupuytren's
contracture, penile trauma, and family history. A variety of treatment strategies
have been utilized, including oral and topical agents, electromotive drug
administration, intralesional injections, extracorporeal shockwave therapy,
penile traction, and surgery. However, most of these strategies are ineffective, 
with surgery being the only definitive treatment. Collagenase clostridium
histolyticum is a newly US Food and Drug Administration-approved agent for
intralesional injection. It is thought to downregulate many of the
disease-related genes, cytokines, and growth factors and degrade collagen fibers.
It also suppresses cell attachment, spreading, and proliferation. Collagenase
clostridium histolyticum has been clinically proven to be a safe and effective
therapeutic option, demonstrating decreases in penile curvature and plaque
consistency, as well as increases in patient satisfaction. During clinical
evaluation, the Peyronie's Disease Questionnaire was validated as an effective
tool for assessing treatment outcomes.

DOI: 10.2147/BTT.S65619 
PMCID: PMC4598203
PMID: 26491251  [PubMed]
