

302. J Assoc Physicians India. 2014 Sep;62(9):788-92.

Prevalence of Rheumatological Manifestations in Diabetic Population from
North-West India.

Agrawal RP, Gothwal S, Tantia P, Agrawal R, Rijhwani P, Sirohi P, Meel JK.

Comment in
    J Assoc Physicians India. 2014 Sep;62(9):781-2.

INTRODUCTION: An increased prevalence of rheumatological manifestations is
recognised in diabetes and is a common source of disability. The relationship
with other risk factors and glycaemic control is uncertain. We designed this
study to find out the prevalence of rheumatological manifestations, association
with various risk factors and to assess differences between type 1 and type 2
diabetes.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The study was conducted from Jan 2010 to Dec 2011 at
tertiary care hospital. We recorded type of diabetes, various risk factors viz
age, duration of diabetes, glycaemic control (HbA1C) and BMI and noted prevalence
of various rheumatological manifestations by clinical examination, X-ray and if
needed CT scan/MRI. We explored correlation between rheumatological
manifestations and these variables using logistic regression.
RESULTS: The prevalence of rheumatological manifestations was estimated at 570
per 1000 population. The manifestations were more common in type 1 diabetes
(62.7%). The various complications observed in the present study were DISH (13%),
Frozen Shoulder (20%), Dupuytren's Contracture (7.2%), Osteoarthritis (36.1%),
Neuroarthropathy (2.9%), Chieroarthropathy (22.6%) and Flexor Tenosynovitis
(8.1%). Among various risk factors, duration of diabetes (odd ratio: 5.127), BMI 
(odd ratio: 7.429) and age (odd ratio: 4.731) were common risk factors. Poor
glycaemic control was also associated with increased prevalence of
rheumatological manifestations.
CONCLUSION: Rheumatologic manifestations are very common in diabetics and are
associated with poor glycaemic control, BMI, duration of diabetes and age of the 
patients.


PMID: 26259313  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
