

309. Diabetes Metab Syndr Obes. 2013 May 7;6:197-207. doi: 10.2147/DMSO.S33943. Print 
2013.

Management of limited joint mobility in diabetic patients.

Abate M(1), Schiavone C, Salini V, Andia I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine and Science of Aging, University G d'Annunzio,
Chieti-Pescara, Italy.

Several rheumatologic manifestations are more pronounced in subjects with
diabetes, ie, frozen shoulder, rotator cuff tears, Dupuytren's contracture,
trigger finger, cheiroarthropathy in the upper limb, and Achilles tendinopathy
and plantar fasciitis in the lower limb. These conditions can limit the range of 
motion of the affected joint, thereby impairing function and ability to perform
activities of daily living. This review provides a short description of
diabetes-related joint diseases, the specific pathogenetic mechanisms involved,
and the role of inflammation, overuse, and genetics, each of which activates a
complex sequence of biochemical alterations. Diabetes is a causative factor in
tendon diseases and amplifies the damage induced by other agents as well.
According to an accepted hypothesis, damaged joint tissue in diabetes is caused
by an excess of advanced glycation end products, which forms covalent cross-links
within collagen fibers and alters their structure and function. Moreover, they
interact with a variety of cell surface receptors, activating a number of
effects, including pro-oxidant and proinflammatory events. Adiposity and advanced
age, commonly associated with type 2 diabetes mellitus, are further pathogenetic 
factors. Prevention and strict control of this metabolic disorder is essential,
because it has been demonstrated that limited joint motion is related to duration
of the disease and hyperglycemia. Several treatments are used in clinical
practice, but their mechanisms of action are not completely understood, and their
efficacy is also debated.

DOI: 10.2147/DMSO.S33943 
PMCID: PMC3656815
PMID: 23690694  [PubMed]
