

313. Inflamm Allergy Drug Targets. 2012 Feb;11(1):48-57.

Inflammatory mechanisms and oxidative stress in Peyronie's disease: therapeutic
"rationale" and related emerging treatment strategies.

Paulis G(1), Brancato T.

Author information: 
(1)Andrology Service, Complex Operative Unit of Urology, Regina Apostolorum
Hospital, Albano Laziale, Rome, Italy. paulisg@tiscali.it

Peyronie's disease (PD) is a connective tissue disorder characterized by a
fibrous plaque involving the tunica albuginea of the penis. The inelastic fibrous
plaque leads to a penile curvature. Several Authors have suggested an
immunological genesis of this disease, others have linked PD with Dupuytren's
contracture. Signs of this disease are curvature, penile pain, penile deformity, 
difficulty with coitus, shortening, hinging, narrowing and erectile dysfunction. 
The natural history of PD and the clinical course can develop from spontaneous
resolution of symptoms to progressive penile deformity and impotence. Surgical
treatment is indicated when patients fail the conservative medical treatment and 
however, only in case of disease stabilization with a condition of impossibility 
of penetration. The medical treatment is indicated in the development stage of PD
for at least one year after diagnosis and whenever in case of penile pain.
Current non-surgical therapy includes vitamin-E, verapamil, para-aminobenzoate,
propoleum, colchicine, carnitine, tamoxifen, interferons, collagenase,
hyaluronidase, cortisone, pentoxifylline, superoxide dismutase, iontophoresis,
radiation, extracorporeal shock wave therapy (ESWT) and the penile extender. The 
etiology of this fibrotic disease is not widely known, although in recent years
pathophysiological knowledge has evolved and new studies propose the penile
trauma as cause of the disease. The penile trauma results in a delamination of
the tunica albuginea with a consequent small hematoma, then the process evolves
as an inflammation with accumulation of inflammatory cells and production of
reactive oxygen species (ROS). In the course of the inflammation, Peyronie's
disease occurs due to the activation of nuclear factor kappa-B, that induces the 
production of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), with an increase of nitric 
oxide, leading to increased production of peroxynitrite anion. All these
processes result in the proliferation of fibroblasts and myo-fibroblasts and
excessive production of collagen between the layers of the tunica albuginea
(penile plaque). Referring to the current knowledge of inflammatory and oxidative
mechanisms of PD, a possible therapeutic strategy is then analyzed.

Â© 2012 Bentham Science Publishers


PMID: 22309083  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
