

33. J Plast Surg Hand Surg. 2012 Sep;46(3-4):177-83. doi:
10.3109/2000656X.2012.683795. Epub 2012 Jun 7.

Efficacy of collagenase in patients who did and did not have previous hand
surgery for Dupuytren's contracture.

Bainbridge C(1), Gerber RA, Szczypa PP, Smith T, Kushner H, Cohen B, Hellio Le
Graverand-Gastineau MP.

Author information: 
(1)Pulvertaft Hand Clinic, Royal Derby Hospital, Derby, UK.
chris@hand-surgery.co.uk

Collagenase Clostridium histolyticum (CCH) is a non-surgical, efficacious therapy
for Dupuytren's contracture (DC). This study evaluated the efficacy and safety of
CCH in patients with previous DC surgery. Data from 12 CCH clinical trials were
pooled. At screening, patients provided details about the type/date of previous
DC surgery. Reviewers coded descriptions to the Operated Hand, finger, and joint.
Of 1082 patients, 422 (39%) had previous DC surgery. For these patients with
previous surgery, the CCH treatment was coded on the Operated (n = 206) or
Non-operated Hand (n = 196). End-points included changes in fixed-flexion
contracture (FFC) and range of motion (ROM). Adverse events (AEs) were monitored.
After treatment with CCH, FFC at metacarpophalangeal joints was reduced by 75% in
previously Operated Hands and by 80% for Non-operated Hands (p = 0.6).
Improvements in ROM were 32째 and 32째, respectively (p = 0.9). For proximal
inter-phalangeal joints, the reductions in FFC for the Operated and Non-operated 
Hands were 52% and 50%, respectively (p = 0.6); improvements in ROM were 24째 and 
26째, respectively (p = 0.3). Some AE rates were significantly higher in the
Operated vs Non-operated Hand groups, but were not clinically relevant. There
were no between-group significant differences in AE duration (p > 0.08). Previous
surgery for DC does not affect efficacy or safety of CCH, suggesting CCH is an
option in patients with recurring DC. Some AE rates were significantly higher,
but not clinically relevant.

DOI: 10.3109/2000656X.2012.683795 
PMCID: PMC3469218
PMID: 22670890  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
