

35. Hand Surg. 2014;19(3):389-92. doi: 10.1142/S0218810414500324. Epub 2014 Aug 25.

What is the better treatment for single digit dupuytren's contracture: surgical
release or collagenase clostridium histolyticum (Xiapex) injection?

Povlsen B(1), Povlsen SD.

Author information: 
(1)London Hand Clinic, London Bridge Hospital, London, UK.

Comment in
    Hand Surg. 2015;20(2):333-4.

The purpose of this study was to compare the initial and final outcome range of
motion in the MCP-J and PIP-J of single digit Dupuytren's Contracture treated
with either open surgical excision or manipulation after collagenase clostridium 
histolyticum (CCH; Xiapex) injection.MATERIAL: Ten patients in either group. The 
range of motion measurements were statistically compared using the student t-test
with a p-value of 0.05. There was no statistical difference in the pre-treatment 
status of the total active range of movement (TAM) between the two groups.
RESULTS: Open surgical release achieved a statistically better initial outcome in
combined total passive range of movement than the xiapex group (p = 0.0047), but 
at the final outcome the better TAM measurement at the MCP-J after surgery was
not statistically significant. However, the total active range of movement was
statistically better at the PIP-J level in the xiapex group (p = 0.01) and the
MCP-J and PIP-J combined total active range of movement was statistically better 
in the xiapex group (p = 0.0258).
CONCLUSION: Surgery achieved better initial outcome at both MCP-J and PIP-J
levels, and at discharge, only extension in the MCP-J level was statistically
better after open excision. However the final outcome was statistically better at
the PIP-J level in extension (p = 0.006) and total active movement (TAM) (p =
0.008) after treatment with collagenase clostridium histolyticum. Further studies
are required to assess the long-term differences between the two groups and to
investigate the outcomes for patients with multi-digit involvement.

DOI: 10.1142/S0218810414500324 
PMID: 25155703  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
