

40. J Hand Surg Eur Vol. 2012 Oct;37(8):728-32. doi: 10.1177/1753193412439673. Epub
2012 Feb 22.

Management of severe Dupuytren's contracture of the proximal interphalangeal
joint with use of a central slip facilitation device.

White JW(1), Kang SN, Nancoo T, Floyd D, Kambhampati SB, McGrouther DA.

Author information: 
(1)Queens Hospital, Romford, Essex, UK. dr.jwhite@ashna.net

Thirty-eight fingers in 27 patients with Dupuytren's contracture of the proximal 
interphalangeal joint (PIPJ) in excess of 70° were treated using a staged
technique. The first stage involved applying a mini external fixator across the
PIPJ for continuous extension over 6 weeks with intensive hand therapy to
maintain mobility of the joint and help correct the deformity. Twice weekly
during hand therapy sessions the tension of the elastic band across the mini
ex-fix was increased, allowing that full active flexion of the PIPJ against the
elastic band could still be achieved. The second stage, 4 weeks after the
external fixator was applied, involved an open palm technique of fasciectomy for 
the contracted cords restricting metacarpophalangeal joint movement and
dermofasciectomy with full-thickness skin grafting over the proximal phalanx for 
bands restricting PIPJ movement. The external fixator was used to maintain active
extension force until the graft healed. It was generally removed in the
outpatient clinic under ring block 2 weeks after the second stage procedure. The 
patients were followed for a mean of 20.6 (6-48) months. The mean preoperative
PIPJ deformity improved from 75° to 37° postoperatively. Overall, 69% of results 
were rated as good to excellent. Only one patient reported any on-going
functional problems. There were eight cases of pin site infections and one case
each of loose pins, osteoarthritics at the PIPJ, reflex sympathetic dystrophy,
and disease recurrence needing PIPJ fusion. We conclude that our simple staged
procedure is a valid alternative in the management of severe Dupuytren's PIPJ
contracture.

DOI: 10.1177/1753193412439673 
PMID: 22357334  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
