

41. Rheumatol Int. 2015 Aug;35(8):1343-50. doi: 10.1007/s00296-015-3276-3. Epub 2015 
May 12.

Screening of candidate genes in fibroblasts derived from patients with
Dupuytren's contracture using bioinformatics analysis.

Liu H(1), Yin W, Liu B, Liu Y, Guo B, Wei Z.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hand Surgery, China-Japan Union Hospital of Jilin University,
126 Xiantai Street, Changchun, 130031, China.

Our study aimed to identify candidate genes associated with Dupuytren's
contracture (DC) and elucidate their roles in DC development. The microarray data
of GSE21221 were downloaded from Gene Expression Omnibus database, including six 
samples from carpal tunnel-derived fibroblasts and six samples from DC-derived
fibroblasts. The differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in DC samples were
screened using limma package. GO annotation and KEGG pathway analyses were
performed by DAVID online tool. Protein-protein interaction network and
expression correlation network were constructed to identify crucial relationships
between DEGs. Finally, candidate DC-associated genes were predicted based on
comparative toxicogenomics database. A total of 529 DEGs (138 up- and 391
down-regulated) in DC-derived fibroblasts were screened and compared with carpal 
tunnel-derived fibroblasts. Only ten DC-associated genes, such as neurotrophin 3 
(NTF3) and protein kinase C, epsilon (PRKCE), were further screened. In addition,
NTF3 was significantly enriched in MAPK signaling pathway, in which other DEGs,
such as nuclear receptor subfamily 4, group A, member 1 (NR4A1), fibroblast
growth factor 22 (FGF22) and BDNF, were enriched. Besides, NTF3 could co-express 
with fibrillin 2 (FBN2), and PRKCE could co-express with zinc finger protein 516 
(ZNF516), solute carrier organic anion transporter family, member 2A1 (SLCO2A1), 
chromosome 10 open reading frame 10 (C10orf10) and Kelch domain containing 7A
(KLHDC7A). Our study indicates that these DEGs, including NTF3, FBN2, NR4A1,
FGF22, BDNF, PRKCE, ZNF516, SLCO2A1, C10orf10 and KLHDC7A, may play important
roles in DC development and serve as candidate molecular targets for treating DC.

DOI: 10.1007/s00296-015-3276-3 
PMID: 25963801  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
