

44. Hand (N Y). 2014 Dec;9(4):447-58. doi: 10.1007/s11552-014-9645-7.

Postapproval clinical experience in the treatment of Dupuytren's contracture with
collagenase clostridium histolyticum (CCH): the first 1,000 days.

Schulze SM(1), Tursi JP(2).

Author information: 
(1)Delmarva Hand Specialists, 34434 King Street Row, Suite 2, Lewes, DE 19958
USA. (2)Clinical Development, Auxilium Pharmaceuticals, 640 Lee Road,
Chesterbrook, PA 19087 USA.

Dupuytren's contracture is a benign fibromatosis of the palmar and digital fascia
of the hand of uncertain etiology, resulting in nodules and cords beneath the
skin of the palm of the hands that may lead to the development of contractures.
Surgical intervention is often considered when metacarpophalangeal (MP) joint
contracture is 30° or more, or when there is any degree of proximal
interphalangeal (PIP) joint contracture. Collagenase clostridium histolyticum
(CCH) is a nonsurgical, minimally invasive enzymatic drug indicated for the
treatment of adult patients with Dupuytren's contracture (DC) and palpable cord. 
CCH has been available for approximately 3.5 years, and postapproval experience
indicates that the effectiveness of CCH is equivalent to or better than efficacy 
observed in clinical trials, as seen by lower injection rates to achieve clinical
success. Postapproval experience has shown a risk-benefit profile that favors CCH
for patients not indicated for surgery based on current recommendations and shows
also that treating earlier-stage vs later-stage joint contracture results in
significantly better outcomes on average. Postapproval surveillance reveals a
safety profile similar to that observed in clinical trials. Nonserious adverse
events are mainly local reactions; tendon rupture, a serious adverse event, is
reported rarely in the clinical practice setting and at a lower rate than in
clinical trials. Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) training is
designed to mitigate benefit vs risk to achieve safe and effective use of CCH.

DOI: 10.1007/s11552-014-9645-7 
PMCID: PMC4235912
PMID: 25414604  [PubMed]
