

45. J Orthop Res. 2013 Feb;31(2):328-34. doi: 10.1002/jor.22220. Epub 2012 Sep 14.

The mechanical environment in Dupuytren's contracture determines cell
contractility and associated MMP-mediated matrix remodeling.

Verhoekx JS(1), Beckett KS, Bisson MA, McGrouther DA, Grobbelaar AO, Mudera V.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Orthopaedics and Musculoskeletal Sciences, University College
London, Stanmore, United Kingdom. jsn.verhoekx@gmail.com

Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are expressed in Dupuytren's contracture and
play a role in matrix remodeling. We tested the role of tension on contractility 
and MMP expression in Dupuytren's nodule and cord cells. Cells were subjected to 
pre-determined loading patterns of known repeatable magnitudes (static load,
unloading, and overloading) and tested for MMP gene expression (MMP-1, -2, -9,
-13, and TIMP-1, -2) and force generation using a tension-culture force monitor. 
Matrix remodeling was assessed by addition of cytochalasin D and residual matrix 
tension was quantified. Nodule compared to cord and control cells demonstrate
greater force generation and remodeling (p < 0.05). Nodule cells subjected to a
reduced load and overloading led to threefold increase of MMP-1, -2, and -9
compared to static load, whilst cord and control cells only showed a twofold
increase of MMP-9. Nodule cells subjected to overloading showed a twofold
increase in TIMP-2 expression, whilst cord and control cells showed a twofold
increase in TIMP-1 expression. Nodule cells differ from cord cells by increased
force generation in response to changes in the mechanical environment and related
MMP/TIMP-mediated matrix remodeling. In turn this may lead to permanent matrix
shortening and digital contracture. Interventional therapies should be aimed at
nodule cells to prevent contraction and subsequent permanent matrix remodeling.

Copyright Â© 2012 Orthopaedic Research Society.

DOI: 10.1002/jor.22220 
PMID: 22987740  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
