

48. Clin Vaccine Immunol. 2012 Apr;19(4):562-9. doi: 10.1128/CVI.00018-12. Epub 2012 
Feb 22.

Assessment of potential cross-reactivity of human endogenous matrix
metalloproteinases with collagenase Clostridium histolyticum antibodies in human 
sera obtained from patients with Dupuytren's contracture.

Edkins TJ(1), Koller-Eichhorn R, Alhadeff JA, Mayer U, Faust H, Del Tito BJ.

Author information: 
(1)Edkins Pharma Services, LLC, Wayne, Pennsylvania, USA.

Collagenase Clostridium histolyticum (CCH) contains a fixed ratio of class I
(AUX-I) and class II (AUX-II) collagenases and is used as treatment for
Dupuytren's contracture. These two Zn-dependent enzymes, produced by the
Gram-positive bacterium Clostridium histolyticum, are related functionally to
matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) which, among other functions, degrade the
extracellular matrix. Since AUX-I and AUX-II exhibit sequence similarities to
human MMPs, we assessed MMP-1 (interstitial collagenase), MMP-2 (gelatinase A),
MMP-3 (stromelysin 1), MMP-8 (collagenase 2), and MMP-13 (collagenase 3) for
cross-reactivity with anti-AUX-I and anti-AUX-II antibodies in patient serum.
Serum samples from 71 subjects enrolled in a long-term clinical study (58 males
and 13 females; 63 ± 10 years old [mean ± standard error]) were evaluated for
cross-reactivity with the five MMPs using the two validated enzyme-linked
immunosorbent assays (ELISAs). Inhibition cutoff points for anti-AUX-I and
anti-AUX-II antibodies were based on assay inhibition obtained with a nonspecific
protein, bovine gamma globulin, which was tested for each clinical sample. No MMP
cross-reactivity was found for any of the 71 clinical antibody-positive sera
evaluated. Sequence identity assessments indicated minimal, nonmeaningful
alignments of the MMPs and AUX-I/AUX-II. Furthermore, clinical adverse event
assessments indicated no safety signals related to MMP inhibition. The
bioanalytical results, sequence identity, and clinical assessments consistently
did not demonstrate cross-reactivity between CCH antidrug antibodies and
endogenous human matrix metalloproteinases. The results presented here suggest
that treatment of Dupuytren's contracture patients with CCH does not lead to any 
clinical adverse events associated with MMP inhibition.

DOI: 10.1128/CVI.00018-12 
PMCID: PMC3318279
PMID: 22357647  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
