

52. Prescrire Int. 2011 Dec;20(122):285-7.

Collagenase Clostridium histolyticum. Short-term benefit in Dupuytren's
contracture, unknown long-term risks.

[No authors listed]

Dupuytren's contracture is due to fibroblast overgrowth in the aponeuroses of the
hand and fingers, leading to excessive collagen production. This can cause
functional impairment due to retraction of one or several fingers.The standard
treatment is surgery, but relapses are frequent. A product containing
collagenolytic bacterial enzymes (collagenases) is now marketed for local
treatment of these retractions. Two double-blind placebo-controlled trials in 308
and 66 patients show that 1 to 3 local injections at one-month intervals lead to 
near-total reduction in finger retraction in about 50% of cases, versus about 5% 
of cases after placebo injections. A non-comparative follow-up of 830
successfully treated patients, lasting an average of 7.4 months, showed a relapse
rate of 4%. The Most patients experience local reactions such as swelling,
bruising, bleeding and pain. These reactions were rarely severe in clinical
trials (1% of patients), but cases of tendon rupture have been described. Nearly 
all treated patients develop anticollagenase antibodies. The only known
consequence of this immune reaction is pruritus, reported by about 11% of
patients participating in clinical trials. The possible impact of these
antibodies on the efficacy of subsequent injections is not known. A certain
antigenic kinship between the bacterial collagenases and certain human enzymes
raises the possibility of long-term autoimmune reactions. In practice, the
limitations of surgical management and the simplicity of local collagenase
injections make it a valid option for the treatment of Dupuytren's contracture.
Uncertainties concerning the long-term harm-benefit balance mean that this
treatment should only be considered when surgery is not an option.


PMID: 22216538  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
