

53. Chir Main. 2013 Apr;32(2):68-73. doi: 10.1016/j.main.2013.02.012. Epub 2013 Mar
6.

Budget impact analysis in Spanish patients with Dupuytren's contracture:
fasciectomy vs. collagenase Clostridium histolyticum.

De Salas-Cansado M(1), Cuadros M, Del Cerro M, Arandes JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of health economics & outcomes research, Pfizer Spain, Avda. de
Europa, 20 B, Parque Empresarial La Moraleja, 28108 Alcobendas, Madrid, Spain.
Marina.desalas@pfizer.com

The aim of this study was to estimate the budget impact of collagenase
Clostridium histolyticum (CCH) vs. fasciectomy (FSC) surgery for the treatment of
Dupuytren's disease (DD) in Spain. A cost minimization analysis was adopted
(effectiveness was assumed to be equivalent for both techniques). DD related
costs were considered. CCH costs (including drug, administration and visits) were
obtained from clinical trials and a real-life study. FSC costs (including type of
admission, visits, operating room, re-admissions, tests, drugs and rehabilitation
costs) were collected through a retrospective, observational, local study. Unit
costs were obtained from local database systems (e-SALUD and BOT). Results were
presented from the NHS perspective for the next 3 years. We assumed that there
were 5100 fasciectomies per year (with a 5% annual increase) and that 20%, 30%
and 40% of them will annually utilize CCH. In addition, a 10%, 15% and 20% of
untreated diagnosed patients were expected to receive CCH. All the data were
validated through an expert panel. A sensitivity analysis was performed with the 
main variables. The average FSC cost was €2250 (72% inpatients), €1703 for
outpatients and €2467 for inpatients. The average CCH cost was €1220 (1.5
vial/injection and four visits) and could drop to €898 (1.1 vial/injections and
three visits). The accumulated 3years budget impact analysis (BIA) was 45,971€
(K€-2993(1); 3870). According to this study, the inclusion of the CCH should
produce a 3-year cumulative budgetary impact of €45,971 (K€-2993; 3870) for the
NHS.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.main.2013.02.012 
PMID: 23507313  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
