

54. J Med Econ. 2012;15(4):664-71. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2012.670678. Epub 2012 Mar
21.

Direct and indirect costs associated with Dupuytren's contracture.

Macaulay D(1), Ivanova J, Birnbaum H, Sorg R, Skodny P.

Author information: 
(1)Analysis Group, Inc., New York, NY 10020, USA. dmacaulay@analysisgroup.com

OBJECTIVE: To compare direct (medical and drug) and indirect (work loss) costs
between privately insured US employees with Dupuytren's contracture (DC) and
demographically matched controls without DC.
METHODS: Employees aged 18-64 with ≥ 1 DC diagnosis (ICD-9-CM: 728.6, 718.44)
with service dates 1/1/2000-3/31/2009 were selected from a de-identified,
privately insured claims database (n∼3,000,000). The index date was defined as
the most recent DC diagnosis with continuous eligibility for 6 months prior
(baseline period) and 1 year after (study period) diagnosis. Employees with DC
were matched 1:1 on age, region, gender, and index date to controls without DC,
Peyronie's, or Ledderhose disease diagnoses in their claims histories.
Descriptive analyses compared demographic characteristics, comorbidities,
resource utilization, direct costs, and indirect costs inflated to 2009 dollars.
RESULTS: DC employees (n=1406, mean age 49 years) with matched controls met the
inclusion criteria. DC employees compared with controls had significantly (all
p<0.05) higher baseline comorbidities, including hyperlipidemia (21.1% vs 15.6%),
hypothyroidism (3.5% vs 2.0%), cancer (3.1% vs 1.5%), and diabetes (8.1% vs
3.6%). During the study period, DC employees had significantly (all p<0.01)
higher rates of inpatient stays (7.7% vs 5.3%), emergency department visits
(19.8% vs 13.9%), outpatient visits (100.0% vs 78.4%), physical therapy visits
(30.2% vs 7.2%), and any prescription use (85.0% vs 69.2%), as well as higher
mean work loss days (14.2 vs 7.3). DC employees had on average significantly (all
p<0.01) higher annual direct costs ($5974 vs $3175), indirect costs ($2737 vs
$1309), and total costs ($8712 vs $4485) compared with controls during the study 
period.
LIMITATIONS: Findings did not account for lost productivity at work and were
based on a privately insured, employed population, which may not be generalizable
to all DC patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Employees with DC had substantially higher comorbidity rates,
utilization, and direct and indirect costs compared with demographically matched 
controls.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2012.670678 
PMID: 22369346  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
