

62. J Hand Surg Asian Pac Vol. 2016 Jun;21(2):187-92. doi: 10.1142/S242483551650017X.

Dupuytren's Contracture. The Safety and Efficacy of Collagenase Treatment.

Odinsson A(1,)(2), Brenne LE(2), Lurie TB(3), Finsen V(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)1 Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, St. Olav's University Hospital,
Trondheim. (2)2 Faculty of Medicine, Norwegian University of Science and
Technology, Trondheim. (3)3 Hand rehabilitation unit, St. Olav's University
Hospital, Trondheim, Norway.

BACKGROUND: Our main goal was to see if treatment with collagenase injection is
safe and effective and to assess patient satisfaction with this new treatment.
METHODS: We prospectively followed 77 consecutive patients, treated for
contracture in 91 fingers and 142 joints that received total of 109 collagenase
injections. The patients were reviewed on the first and second day and at 4 and
12 months. A contracture reduced to five degrees or less at 12 months after the
last injection, was considered to be a successful outcome.
RESULTS: A mean of 1.2 injections were used per patient and 0.8 injections per
joint. There was a significant improvement in mean passive extension deficit. Out
of the 142 joints treated, 84 (59%) met our criterion for a successful outcome;
56 (80%) out of 70 MCP joints and 28 (39%) out of 72 PIP joints. There were also 
significant improvements in both hand function and pain. No serious adverse
events were observed. The mean patient satisfaction with the treatment at the
12-month follow up was a VAS score of 78 (0 = none; 100 = complete) and only 11% 
stated that they would not have consented to the treatment if they had known the 
outcome in advance.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment of Dupuytren's disease with collagenase injection is both 
safe and effective. It is now our primary treatment for Dupuytren's disease.

DOI: 10.1142/S242483551650017X 
PMID: 27454632  [PubMed - in process]
