

77. J Hand Surg Am. 2013 Dec;38(12):2370-6. doi: 10.1016/j.jhsa.2013.08.114. Epub
2013 Oct 17.

Collagenase clostridium histolyticum for dupuytren contracture: patterns of use
and effectiveness in clinical practice.

Peimer CA(1), Skodny P, Mackowiak JI.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, College of Human Medicine, Michigan State University,
Lansing; Marquette General Healthcare, Marquette, MI; Health Economics & Outcomes
Research, Auxilium Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Malvern, PA; and Center for Outcomes
Research, Nashville, TN. Electronic address: clayton.peimer@mghs.org.

PURPOSE: To collect data on the real-world effectiveness of collagenase
clostridium histolyticum (CCH) during its first year of use following U.S. Food
and Drug Administration approval and compare those results with clinical trial
efficacy data.
METHODS: This retrospective chart review was conducted at 10 U.S. community and
academic practice sites with major experience using CCH. Charts of patients
treated with CCH between February and December 2010 were abstracted, and
anonymized data were analyzed. Clinical use, including number of injections per
cord and effectiveness outcomes (joint contracture and range of motion) were
compared with results from 2 registration trials.
RESULTS: Data were collected from 501 patients (74% male; 48% employed; mean [SD]
age, 65 [10] y); 463 patients had sufficient data for analysis. We found that
1.08 CCH injections were used per treated joint, compared with a mean of 1.7
injections in registration trials. Ninety-three percent of joints received only 1
injection. The mean (SD) number of visits per injection was 2.92 (1.0). Mean (SD)
contracture was reduced by 75% from 49° (21) at baseline to 12° (17), similar to 
the 71% to 79% reduction in clinical trials. Mean (SD) range of motion was
improved by 37° from 44° (20) at baseline to 81° (14), similar to the increase of
35° and 37° in the 2 clinical trials; and 67% of first injections resulted in
full correction to 0° to 5°, compared with the clinical trial rate of 39%.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite a lower injection rate, correction of joint contracture and 
range of motion was similar to findings from clinical trials. Effectiveness
reports using this kind of surveillance design could provide patients,
physicians, and payers with the information needed to make better treatment and
reimbursement decisions.
TYPE OF STUDY/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic III.

Copyright © 2013 American Society for Surgery of the Hand. Published by Elsevier 
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhsa.2013.08.114 
PMID: 24140362  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
