

80. Plast Surg (Oakv). 2016 Spring;24(1):23-6.

Needle aponeurotomy for Dupuytren contracture: Effectiveness of postoperative
night extension splinting.

Tam L(1), Chung YY(1).

Author information: 
(1)Hand Program, Trillium Health Partners, Toronto, Ontario.

BACKGROUND: Night extension splinting has been used to treat patients with
Dupuytren contracture to improve active range of motion (AROM) of the hand. A
published case study demonstrated the benefit of splinting following needle
aponeurotomy; however, no larger studies have evaluated the impact of
postoperative splinting.
OBJECTIVES: To compare the impact of night extension splinting on AROM,
specifically extension, following needle aponeurotomy for Dupuytren contracture.
METHODS: A retrospective chart review was conducted in which the charts of 53
patients who underwent needle aponeurotomy for Dupuytren contracture between 2009
and 2013 were reviewed. The control group consisted of patients who underwent
needle aponeurotomy only, whereas the treatment group was also referred for
fabrication of custom night extension splints after surgery. Comparisons in pre- 
and postoperative AROM measurements for the metacarpophalangeal (MCP) and
proximal interphalangeal (PIP) joints were made between both groups of patients. 
The degrees of change in AROM for each joint were categorized in terms of levels 
of change: mild (0° to 29°); moderate (30° to 60°); and significant (≥61°).
RESULTS: All patients exhibited increased AROM after surgery for both MCP and PIP
joints. Both groups had a greater increase in AROM in the MCP joint. Twelve
joints from the control group had moderate changes and two from the treatment
group had significant changes. When both groups were compared, the levels of
change of AROM between both groups did not vary significantly.
CONCLUSION: Night extension splinting following needle aponeurotomy may not
improve AROM of the MCP or PIP joints.

Publisher: L’attelle d’extension nocturne est utilisée pour améliorer l’amplitude
active des mouvements (AAM) de la main des patients atteints de la maladie de
Dupuytren. Une étude de cas publiée a démontré les avantages de l’attelle après
une aponévrotomie à l’aiguille, mais aucune étude plus vaste n’a porté sur
l’effet de l’attelle après l’operation.Comparer l’effet de l’attelle d’extension 
nocturne sur l’AAM, particulièrement l’extension, après une aponévrotomie à
l’aiguille pour traiter la maladie de Dupuytren.Les chercheurs ont procédé à
l’analyse rétrospective des dossiers de 53 patients qui avaient subi une
aponévrotomie à l’aiguille pour traiter la maladie de Dupuytren entre 2009 et
2013. Le groupe témoin de patients avait subi seulement une aponévrotomie à
l’aiguille, tandis que le groupe traité était également orienté vers la
fabrication d’attelles d’extension nocturne adaptées après l’opération. Les
chercheurs ont comparé les mesures de l’AAM des articulations
métacarpophalangiennes (MCP) et interphalangiennes proximales (IPP) des deux
groupes de patients avant et après l’opération. Ils ont classé le degré de
changement de l’AAM de chaque articulation : léger (0 ° à 29 °); modéré (30 ° à
60 °) et important (≥61 °).Tous les patients ont présenté une meilleure AAM des
articulations MCP et IPP après l’opération. Les deux groupes présentaient une
plus grande augmentation de l’AAM dans l’articulation MCP. Douze articulations du
groupe témoin présentaient des changements modérés et deux articulations du
groupe traité, des changements importants. Le taux de changement de l’AAM ne
variait pas de manière significative entre les deux groupes.L’attelle d’extension
nocturne après une aponévrotomie à l’aiguille n’améliore pas nécessairement l’AAM
des articulations MCP ou IPP.

PMCID: PMC4806752 [Available on 2017-03-01]
PMID: 27054134  [PubMed]
