

83. J Hand Surg Am. 2013 Jan;38(1):12-22. doi: 10.1016/j.jhsa.2012.09.028. Epub 2012 
Nov 30.

Dupuytren contracture recurrence following treatment with collagenase clostridium
histolyticum (CORDLESS study): 3-year data.

Peimer CA(1), Blazar P, Coleman S, Kaplan FT, Smith T, Tursi JP, Cohen B, Kaufman
GJ, Lindau T.

Author information: 
(1)College of Human Medicine, Michigan State University, Marquette General
Healthcare, Marquette, MI 49855, USA. clayton.peimer@mghs.org

Comment in
    J Hand Surg Am. 2015 Nov;40(11):2317.
    J Hand Surg Am. 2015 Nov;40(11):2317-8.

PURPOSE: To evaluate long-term efficacy and safety of collagenase clostridium
histolyticum (CCH) after the third year of a 5-year nontreatment follow-up study,
Collagenase Option for Reduction of Dupuytren Long-Term Evaluation of Safety
Study.
METHODS: This study enrolled Dupuytren contracture patients from 5 previous
clinical studies. Beginning 2 years after their first CCH injection, we
re-evaluated patients annually for joint contracture and safety. Recurrence in a 
previously successfully treated joint (success = 0° to 5° contracture after CCH
administration) was defined as 20° or greater worsening in contracture in the
presence of a palpable cord or medical/surgical intervention to correct new or
worsening contracture. We assessed partially corrected joints (joints reduced 20°
or more from baseline contracture but not to 0° to 5°) for nondurable response,
also defined as 20° or greater worsening of contracture or medical/surgical
intervention.
RESULTS: Of 1,080 CCH-treated joints (648 metacarpophalangeal [MCP]; 432 proximal
interphalangeal [PIP]; n = 643 patients), 623 (451 MCP, 172 PIP) had achieved 0° 
to 5° contracture in the original study. Of these joints, 35% (217 of 623)
recurred (MCP 27%; PIP 56%). Of these recurrences, an intervention was performed 
in 7%. Of the 1,080 CCH-treated joints, 301 were partially corrected in the
original study. Of these, 50% (150 of 301; MCP: 38% [57 of 152]; PIP: 62% [93 of 
149]) had nondurable response. We identified no new long-term or serious adverse 
events attributed to CCH during follow-up. Anti-clostridial type I collagenase
and/or anti-clostridial type II collagenase antibodies were reported for 96% or
more of patients who received 2 or more CCH injections and 82% who received 1
injection.
CONCLUSIONS: The recurrence rate, which is comparable to other standard
treatments, and the absence of long-term adverse events 3 years after initial
treatment indicate that CCH is an effective and safe treatment for Dupuytren
contracture. Most successfully treated joints had a contracture well below the
threshold for surgical intervention 3 years after treatment. Recurrence rates
among successfully treated joints were lower than nondurable response rates among
partially corrected joints.
TYPE OF STUDY/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic IV.

Copyright © 2013 American Society for Surgery of the Hand. Published by Elsevier 
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhsa.2012.09.028 
PMID: 23200951  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
