

84. J Med Case Rep. 2015 Jul 8;9:158. doi: 10.1186/s13256-015-0634-4.

Dupuytren's contractures associated with the BRAF inhibitor vemurafenib: a case
report.

Chan SW(1), Vorobiof DA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Sandton Oncology Centre, 159 Rivonia Road, Morningside, Sandton, Johannesburg,
Gauteng, 2199, South Africa. dr.szewai.chan@gmail.com. (2)Sandton Oncology
Centre, 159 Rivonia Road, Morningside, Sandton, Johannesburg, Gauteng, 2199,
South Africa. voro@global.co.za.

INTRODUCTION: Two previous cases of the development of Dupuytren's contractures
were reported in association with BRAF inhibitor treatment for BRAF V600E
mutation-positive metastatic melanoma and metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma.
We reported on a third case with a slower onset of presentation.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 66-year-old white man was diagnosed with a BRAF V600E
mutated metastatic cutaneous melanoma. He was commenced on oral vemurafenib 960
mg twice daily. A marked response was achieved for his metastatic disease. He
noticed a change of his hair characteristics and a feeling of "lumps" in both
palms by 6 months. By 9 months, classical Dupuytren's contracture was apparent.
CONCLUSIONS: Dupuytren's contracture is not a known side effect of BRAF inhibitor
treatment. The timeline for the development of Dupuytren's contracture on BRAF
inhibitor treatment is not well defined. Although the etiology of Dupuytren's
contracture is unknown, an increase in tumor necrosis factor has been
demonstrated to be a possible mechanism. BRAF inhibition has been shown to
increase immune reaction in the tumor microenvironment and is associated with
high serum tumor necrosis factor level. We propose that an increased level of
tumor necrosis factor associated with BRAF inhibition may increase the risk of
the development of Dupuytren's contractures.

DOI: 10.1186/s13256-015-0634-4 
PMCID: PMC4501278
PMID: 26152183  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
