

9. J Hand Surg Eur Vol. 2015 Feb;40(2):141-9. doi: 10.1177/1753193414528843. Epub
2014 Apr 2.

Safety and tolerability of collagenase Clostridium histolyticum and fasciectomy
for Dupuytren's contracture.

Peimer CA(1), Wilbrand S(2), Gerber RA(3), Chapman D(4), Szczypa PP(5).

Author information: 
(1)College of Human Medicine, Michigan State University, Marquette, MI, USA
clayton.peimer@mghs.org. (2)Department of Hand Surgery, University Hospital,
Uppsala, Sweden. (3)Pfizer Inc., Groton, CT, USA. (4)Pfizer Inc., New York, NY,
USA. (5)Pfizer Ltd, Surrey, UK.

Safety was evaluated for collagenase Clostridium histolyticum (CCH) based on 11
clinical trials (N = 1082) and compared with fasciectomy data in a structured
literature review of 48 European studies (N = 7727) for treatment of Dupuytren's 
contracture. Incidence of adverse events was numerically lower with CCH vs.
equivalent complications from fasciectomy (median [range] incidence), including
nerve injury (0% vs. 3.8% [0%-50+%]), neurapraxia (4.4% vs. 9.4% [0%-51.3%]),
complex regional pain syndrome (0.1% vs. 4.5% [1.3%-18.5%]) and arterial injury
(0% vs. 5.5% [0.8%-16.5%]). Tendon injury (0.3% vs. 0.1% [0%-0.2%]), skin injury 
(16.2% vs. 2.8% [0%-25.9%]) and haematoma (77.7% vs. 2.0% [0%-25%]) occurred at a
numerically higher incidence with CCH than surgery. Adverse events in CCH trials 
not reported after fasciectomy included peripheral oedema; extremity pain;
injection site pain, haemorrhage and swelling; tenderness; pruritus and
lymphadenopathy. CCH-related adverse events were reported as predominantly
injection-related and transient. These results may support clinical
decision-making for treatment of Dupuytren's contracture.

Â© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/1753193414528843 
PMCID: PMC4361465
PMID: 24698851  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
