

91. J Hand Surg Am. 2012 Jul;37(7):1307-12. doi: 10.1016/j.jhsa.2012.04.026. Epub
2012 May 26.

Steroid injection and needle aponeurotomy for Dupuytren contracture: a
randomized, controlled study.

McMillan C(1), Binhammer P.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Sunnybrook Health Sciences
Centre, Toronto, Canada.

Comment in
    J Hand Surg Am. 2012 Nov;37(11):2429-30; author reply 2430-1.

PURPOSE: To compare flexion deformity at 6 months in patients with Dupuytren
contracture who had percutaneous needle aponeurotomy (PNA) combined with a series
of triamcinolone acetonide (TA) injections to that of patients who had PNA alone.
METHODS: Forty-seven patients with Dupuytren disease who were candidates for PNA 
(at least 1 contracture of at least 20°) participated in the study. Patients were
randomized either to receive TA injections immediately following and 6 weeks and 
3 months after the procedure or to receive no injections. Injections were
administered into cords. The number of injections and the amount of TA per
injection was determined based on the number of digits involved and the cord
size. All subjects returned for 3 follow-up visits after the procedure, and
contractures were measured using a goniometer. Change in total active extension
deficit (TAED) was analyzed using a repeated measures analysis of variance to
assess for differences between groups, time points, and interaction between group
and time point. Descriptive statistics were calculated for all variables of
interest. Continuous measures were summarized using means and standard
deviations.
RESULTS: There was no significant difference in TAED between groups before cord
aponeurotomy. Correction at 6 months was 87% of preoperative TAED for the TA
group versus 64% for the control group. This difference was statistically
significant. The amount of TA administered did not correlate with TAED
improvement.
CONCLUSIONS: The study group who received TA in combination with PNA experienced 
a significantly greater degree of correction of flexion deformity at 6 months
than those who had PNA alone.

Copyright © 2012 American Society for Surgery of the Hand. Published by Elsevier 
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhsa.2012.04.026 
PMID: 22633226  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
