

92. Clin Genet. 2015 May;87(5):483-7. doi: 10.1111/cge.12410. Epub 2014 May 15.

The importance of genetic susceptibility in Dupuytren's disease.

Becker K(1), Tinschert S, Lienert A, Bleuler PE, Staub F, Meinel A, Rößler J,
Wach W, Hoffmann R, Kühnel F, Damert HG, Nick HE, Spicher R, Lenze W, Langer M,
Nürnberg P, Hennies HC.

Author information: 
(1)Cologne Center for Genomics; Cluster of Excellence on Cellular Stress
Responses in Aging-associated Diseases, University of Cologne, Cologne, Germany.

Dupuytren's disease (DD) is a progressive fibromatosis that causes the formation 
of nodules and cords in the palmar aponeurosis leading to flexion contracture of 
affected fingers. The etiopathogenesis is multifactorial with a strong genetic
predisposition. It is the most frequent genetic disorder of connective tissues.
We have collected clinical data from 736 unrelated individuals with DD who
underwent surgical treatment from Germany and Switzerland. We evaluated a
standardised questionnaire, assessed the importance of different risk factors and
compared subgroups with and without positive family history. We found that family
history clearly had the strongest influence on the age at first surgery compared 
to environmental factors, followed by male sex. Participants with a positive
family history were on average 55.9 years of age at the first surgical
intervention, 5.2 years younger than probands without known family history
(p = 6.7 × 10(-8) ). The percentage of familial cases decreased with age of onset
from 55% in the 40-49 years old to 17% at age 80 years or older. Further risk
factors analysed were cigarettes, alcohol, diabetes, hypertension, and epilepsy. 
Our data pinpoint the importance of genetic susceptibility for DD, which has long
been underestimated.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cge.12410 
PMID: 24749973  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
