

94. Hand (N Y). 2015 Sep;10(3):578-82. doi: 10.1007/s11552-014-9714-y.

Delayed manipulation after collagenase clostridium histolyticum injection for
Dupuytren contracture.

Kaplan FT(1), Badalamente MA(2), Hurst LC(2), Merrell GA(1), Pahk R(2).

Author information: 
(1)Indiana Hand to Shoulder Center, 8501 Harcourt Rd, Indianapolis, IN 46260 USA.
(2)Department of Orthopaedics, Stony Brook University Medical Center, Stony
Brook, NY USA.

BACKGROUND: Collagenase clostridium histolyticum (CCH) injection for Dupuytren
contracture was approved in the USA in 2010. Current FDA guidelines stipulate
that finger manipulation occurs the day following injection. To investigate the
safety and efficacy of delaying manipulation to 2 or 4 days following CCH
injection, we conducted a prospective, randomized trial at two sites.
METHODS: Patients with Dupuytren contracture involving the metacarpophalangeal
(MCP) joint ≥20° caused by a palpable cord participated. All patients received
one dose of CCH (0.58 mg/0.25 ml) and were followed for 90 days. The primary end 
point was the percent of patients maintaining clinical success (reduction of
contracture to 0°-5°) at 90 days post-injection. Adverse events and change in
Michigan Hand Questionnaire (MHQ) score were recorded as secondary end points.
RESULTS: Thirty-seven patients enrolled; 13 were manipulated on day 1, 11 on day 
2, and 13 on day 4. At 30 days after injection, the percentage of patients
obtaining reduction of contracture to <0°-5° extension was 92, 82, and 85 % in
groups 1, 2, and 3, respectively, with no significant difference. At 90 days
follow-up, the percentage of patients maintaining 0°-5° extension was 91, 82, and
83 % in groups 1, 2, and 3, respectively, with no significant difference. Adverse
events were comparable to rates in prior studies. There were no serious adverse
events. There was no statistical difference in MHQ scores between groups at any
time point.
CONCLUSIONS: Delaying manipulation to day 2 or 4 following CCH injection for MCP 
joint contractures does not increase adverse events or result in loss of
efficacy.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic, Level II.

DOI: 10.1007/s11552-014-9714-y 
PMCID: PMC4551642
PMID: 26330801  [PubMed]
